Speaker 1  0:01  
So I'm model, so my name is Marty, and I consent to being recorded. We'll start with you, and I'm just going to write down your name. Sorry.

Speaker 2  0:08  
My name is Christian, and I consent to being recorded.

Unknown Speaker  0:12  
My name is Oleg and I consent to be recorded. Rob.

Speaker 3  0:18  
Thank you. My name is Dana, and I present to be recorded. My name is Ahmed Hassan.

Unknown Speaker  0:32  
That's okay, okay, thank you. My name is Eli, and I can send

Unknown Speaker  0:42  
you okay. My name is Vladimir. Vladimir,

Unknown Speaker  0:49  
I'm sorry. What's your name again?

Speaker 1  0:53  
Vladimir, too. No, my name. Your name is Vladimir.

Speaker 4  1:00  
My name is Tommy. Okay, there's two vladimirs.

Unknown Speaker  1:04  
All right, that's a first for me.

Unknown Speaker  1:07  
It could be though, if I wanted it to be you said I

Speaker 1  1:10  
did. I absolutely, I absolutely did. Say that if you wanted to be a Vladimir, you could be a Vladimir, right? I'll be Tommy. You'll be Tommy today. Thank you. That helps you

Unknown Speaker  1:23  
so here's the first question. It's a really easy question.

Speaker 1  1:27  
Can you give me what brought you to Boston? It could be that you moved to Boston. It could be work. It could be anything. What brought you to let's we're in Roxbury, right? Yeah, what brought you to Roxbury or Dorchester or Matt van or wherever?

Unknown Speaker  1:46  
We'll start with you, please? Christian,

Speaker 2  1:50  
I was living in Florida with my fiance, and she got pregnant, and there's no type of helper programs out there, so we do that to Maya.

Speaker 1  1:59  
Okay? Florida sucks. It's a whole nother country. My daughter lives in Florida. That's why I say that. I'm sorry. My daughter lives in Florida. I wish you didn't live there, but

Speaker 4  2:10  
yeah, it's nice if you have like, a job where you can make money down there. It's a great place to live.

Speaker 5  2:19  
I came back to Boston five years ago to get a good job. Okay,

Speaker 6  2:25  
nice, Rob. I'm from West Roxbury. I really leave Boston. I was in New Hampshire last week. Last 20 years. Okay,

Speaker 3  2:40  
I was born and raised in Boston. I just happened to go for a few years like came back. So I really

Unknown Speaker  2:52  
didn't really came back to Boston.

Speaker 7  3:02  
This class brought me here. I live in Avro in where

Unknown Speaker  3:12  
drive like an hour, 20 minutes

Speaker 4  3:16  
time of night, because I come from the salt shore, it's not a fun drive, even,

Unknown Speaker  3:22  
actually, even our 40 but,

Unknown Speaker  3:27  
oh yeah, because people don't know how to drive in the rain.

Unknown Speaker  3:29  
Yeah, there was no traffic today.

Speaker 1  3:33  
Vladimir, what brought you to Boston or here?

Speaker 8  3:38  
I guess probably because I got the bus because of the job.

Speaker 1  3:43  
Good job. Oh, drop, okay. Oh, okay. What about you, Tommy,

Speaker 4  3:49  
I was born and raised. I was born and raised in South Boston. No, I left. I lived in Florida for a little bit during like COVID, but then I came back,

Unknown Speaker  4:03  
got my jaw back with the Teamsters.

Speaker 4  4:08  
Oh, I've been doing that, you know, I work a lot of hours. I'm laid off now, but, you know, I got a girl pregnant, and we had a kid, and I'm here now fighting for my son because she lost custody of him. So I think that given him back to her and say, she gets to do classes too. I gotta do classes, but it's like, I don't know, she can do her classes on the phone. And this one I gotta go over to, you know, it's a great class, but it's not, you know? I mean, there's only comes for one class. You know, she can sit on the phone for two hours and accounts for all her but I don't know. That's how it is in Massachusetts, they'll make it easy on the fathers. My court appointed lawyer, you know, didn't even tell me about the foster care review the other day. I just, I don't know, but I'm here, and I'm just hoping, you know, if I keep doing the right thing, my son will come back to me. Eventually, I just got him a brand new home, so hopefully, you know, I get him back. That's all, I hope. Okay, thank you for sharing that.

Speaker 1  5:12  
All right, I'm not from Boston originally. I'm about to participate. I'm not from Boston originally. I'm from Ohio, first generation, my family's from Puerto Rico. So how we landed in Ohio, I have no idea, but rogerism is Puerto Rico of all places, and I moved to Boston for work. All right, so I have my second question is, what's your experience been living here in Boston, or we're from wherever, right? Doesn't have to because it could be from wherever. What's your we're gonna keep going in this circle. Go ahead, Christian, I'm sorry. I know you're going

Speaker 2  5:57  
I've been here for about two years, and the experience I've had here, even though I was homeless when I first got here, up to, like, six months ago, the experience is way better than my floor experience, because when I was living in Florida, I moved there when I was 14. I was originally from New York, and then my parents from Puerto Rico. So, I mean, it's been really good. I take the past two years on the streets here rather than living in Florida anytime. Yeah, I

Unknown Speaker  6:37  
wish my daughter would

Unknown Speaker  6:40  
learn that. Thank you for that. How about you? Ole

Speaker 5  6:45  
isolating? Very hard to meet people, very hard to deepen relationships.

Speaker 1  6:56  
Things I need people so you don't have any,

Unknown Speaker  7:03  
so your experience has not been been very great or very good

Unknown Speaker  7:11  
in some ways, but lonely. It is lonely.

Unknown Speaker  7:18  
Boston is not a friendly city.

Unknown Speaker  7:19  
Not much, assholes. I

Speaker 1  7:21  
moved here 28 years ago, and I was lost downtown, and I asked them, Do they give me directions to the train station, which is a block away? And they were like, mind your business, and left me there with my three year old daughter. So so I definitely can I understand. How about you, Rob? How's your experience has been here?

Speaker 6  7:45  
I don't know what Sam you know, just it had to be, I did meet somebody, but this is working with the way it is

Unknown Speaker  7:54  
just dealing with DCF, just

Unknown Speaker  8:19  
thank you. All you about you, Dana,

Unknown Speaker  8:24  
I've had good experiences. I've had bad experiences from Boston, so yeah,

Speaker 3  8:31  
I do know a lot of people in the city, so I haven't had any trouble in that game. My family spread out. My mother, lived in Florida. So basically,

Unknown Speaker  8:45  
it's been good for the most popular it's just me. My children

Speaker 3  8:52  
get in custody, my son in this process, I would

Unknown Speaker  9:00  
say that the most, probably spending 7030 thank you for that. It's your turn. So

Speaker 7  9:12  
born and raised in a world my whole life, so

Unknown Speaker  9:17  
everything's been good,

Speaker 1  9:19  
and have her help you. Sorry, my other daughter goes to Fort Devens for she's in the middle, so I have to drive her to Fort Devens every now and then, and every time I drive through there, I'm like, yeah, these were serial killers I made, oh, we're driving to the Berkshires when she was going to college out there. We'd go through these little towns. I'd be like, man, we gotta get out of here before it's before it gets dark. Yeah. Hand is correct. How about you? Thank you. Eli, what about you? Vladimir,

Unknown Speaker  10:08  
you like your hair.

Speaker 9  10:14  
That's it. Nothing else like Barry White, the man, a very few words. Okay,

Speaker 1  10:23  
well, yeah, okay, what about you? Thank you. What about you, Tommy,

Speaker 4  10:29  
my job kind of like keeps me here. If I had a choice, I'd probably live in another state, but

Unknown Speaker  10:36  
my job keeps me here.

Speaker 4  10:39  
I just got, like, a new condo. I'm hoping, yeah, I'm hoping I'm meeting with the social worker tomorrow. I'm hoping my son cannot get the, you know, because, you know, we had a visit the other day. You know, it was like, you know, some autistic kid came in our room, like, there's different rooms, and the social worker that's supposed to be supervising them wouldn't even hang up the year, I mean, but like, if I was doing that with my Oh, my God, it'd be, oh, be using against me and

Speaker 9  11:11  
collect another kids visiting room. Ran

Speaker 4  11:15  
in this the kid really wanted them. I felt bad. I wanted to give him the toy. But my son's want, you know. I mean, he already lost, like, a lot, a lot with me. And it's just, you know, the ladies looking at me and my mom like, you're supposed to be doing your job. Hang up the phone. Who you talk like? I don't know. When I had a visit a few months back, she was supervising mine. She was on the phone for half the visit, two hours late. I can't even believe she still works it, but, yeah, you know. But hopefully, you know, moving forward, I'm close I get my son home. You know, that's all I want this. You know, like, they should be, like, really excited about all this, but I'm really not, because he's not there. No, but hopefully I don't know they're talking about me. They took them last year. It's I just, it gets me so upset because, like, I was just living at a place, and this kid's like a hot mess, and he has his kid, you know, I mean, and I do what I'm supposed to, and, you know, they want more classes. I guess I don't know. I gotta go to some other ones. Hopefully, when I talk to her, I can figure it out, but there's not, like, many classes from you know what I mean, like my son's mother can do it all on one, on the phone a couple hours, but

Unknown Speaker  12:31  
just kind of sucks, I guess, yeah,

Speaker 2  12:33  
we got to jump through hoops, like me and my fiance's daughter got taken. I I'll be personal me and me and my fiance daughter. Gotta tell you, because when she went in labor and she gave birth, they gave her fentanyl and an epidural and they piss test her before they gave it to her. So when they piss tested her after, their reason for taking our daughter was, well, we can't tell if it was before after we gave it to it. We don't know what the levels were, so which was bullshit, but, and I said to him, I was like, well, you're gonna take custody from her piss testing right now. I'm the father. I'll piss clean right now. For you, they totally ignore

Speaker 4  13:16  
me. No, those dogs to me, though, up their meds too. They upped my son's mother's met here. I mean, like, you know, she was on medication. He upped it from like two a day to four here. I mean, it's like, you guys should be responsible too, I guess, you know, they take

Speaker 2  13:31  
no responsibility. And, um, I've been pissing clean for two years now, and they still have my daughter. Yeah,

Speaker 4  13:43  
thank you both. No, I show them documentation. Like, how am I supposed to document that I'm sober? Every day I have all my urines from, like, 2017 18, from the health center I go to. Oh, but it's monthly. I'm like, it goes back seven, eight years. Like, what else you want? Like, I'll pay for here. I don't know. I'm like, There's no way to document unless you follow me around every day or just do a hair test. Yeah, just do a hair test. That's the only way you can tell. I don't know. It's hard. It's very hard.

Unknown Speaker  14:18  
Thank you. Thank you both.

Speaker 1  14:22  
Yeah, I'll be able to, like, after we do these questions and I stop the recording, I'll be able to respond to some of those things. Just can't do it right at this moment, but I'll remember. So as you guys have been participating in lawand program, the family with family nurturing center, the nurturing fathers program, this question is related to that, can you share one or two significant moments for you during this program? So I think you guys, you guys are new. You guys just started right like four weeks in two months in

Unknown Speaker  14:58  
the sick maybe six or seven. Week

Speaker 1  15:02  
Six, okay, so, yeah, so you're, you're a month and a half in, okay, so can you share a moment that was really significant or special to you guys, or one that left you, you know, asking more questions, I would do again.

Unknown Speaker  15:22  
Basically, like the part where

Speaker 2  15:26  
we have to look back and learn more about ourselves and how we were raised and how our fathers were when we were kids, and

Unknown Speaker  15:34  
that reflects on how we take care of ours.

Unknown Speaker  15:37  
That's what got me. That's what got me thinking. Say

Unknown Speaker  15:45  
a little bit more like, like repetition, basically like,

Unknown Speaker  15:52  
you can only you can only teach what you're taught.

Unknown Speaker  15:56  
You only know what you know.

Speaker 1  16:00  
Thank you. How about you, Oleg, you look so serious.

Speaker 1  16:09  
No, I think that's what happens, because it's fine. And then he gave me the raise eyebrows.

Speaker 5  16:15  
I learned one interesting thing, okay, when the Wong was talking to us about feelings, and in particular, very, very loudly telling us to remain calm. We had the conversation about expressing anger, and I that didn't make much sense to me, especially with other people's examples of, I don't know, running or smashing or whatever, because thinking about the meaning of the word Express might mean something like communicate, like when you express yourself, you're communicating to someone else, but I think that that's not really what's meant in that, in that particular part, and that's something that's new to me. This is expresses in, like, get out, like, the way a mother expresses milk.

Speaker 1  17:13  
But that's because you're multilingual, right? You speak two different languages, yeah?

Speaker 5  17:17  
Well, like, do you think that meaning of Express, that is a very strange so

Speaker 1  17:23  
the English language is so complicated, right? No, but yes, I understand what you're talking about. So Express, here is more. Like, like, how do the one was explaining? Like, how you show,

Speaker 5  17:41  
yeah, yes, that's not No,

Speaker 1  17:45  
not for us, because for us it means something different. So you can't take the word, you can't just translate. This might help you. This might this I can definitely talk about. So if you So, if you take the word and you just translate the word, it makes no sense, right? Because it didn't make any sense to you. Like, express it. Like, expresses like a woman expresses breast milk and

Speaker 5  18:04  
all of that. No, no, I'm saying the opposite. I'm saying that I assumed that it was like show to show. Oh,

Speaker 1  18:09  
I thought you said it was the other word. I was like, that's more how you I think that's more how you mean it. Right, right, right, right, yeah. So you have to actually take the word within the context of the sentence. It was

Speaker 5  18:21  
philosophical. But as a philosophical exactly, it's not. It's not a language thing. That's just not how I thought about

Speaker 1  18:27  
because when you first said it, that's how I took it. But that's because I speak two different languages, and what it means to me in Spanish means something different than in English.

Speaker 5  18:36  
Yeah, that was that was learning something about how people think about emotions. Yes,

Speaker 1  18:41  
no, no, either way you write, both ways you're right,

Unknown Speaker  18:47  
saying, but go ahead,

Unknown Speaker  18:50  
he's like, whatever

Unknown Speaker  18:52  
double star, that one thing I know right,

Unknown Speaker  18:54  
what about you, Rob,

Speaker 6  19:00  
it's been pretty informative. You know, it's professional, like it's good, you know, talk about this program, right?

Speaker 1  19:11  
Clarify, yes, I saw, have you had any good moments in this program that you'd like to share? Yes,

Speaker 6  19:16  
let me in the book. I remember saying, this is pretty quick. I can't remember exactly what the hell we doing. But it was thinking like, this is right

Unknown Speaker  19:23  
on the money, you know,

Speaker 6  19:26  
around money. It was pretty applicable. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  19:37  
good, okay. Meant a few words.

Speaker 1  19:44  
Everything you say is good. Whatever you say is going to be good. Trust me, how often do you don't have to answer this question, but how often do people, not just for you, but like, how often. Do people actually ask men questions like these? Usually these kinds of questions are asked for women, because women are the ones that show up to these type of groups, and then there's all that stuff going on. So I get it like it's a little I get it, but now you get to tell me. So how about you? Dana,

Speaker 3  20:22  
at first, at first. When I first, you know, talked about the course with the DCF work, and I was just like, why do I need to take this if I'm I'm being punished for something I had nothing to do with, along with being a father. But it actually spared in my mind, and it helps me cope with a lot of different things on a daily basis, or how to deal with situations or deal with my kids. My kids are 15 years old, so this program is past tense to me. I feel like in some ways, because the things that we talk about in this and I've already experienced when they were young children. So now that my kids are teenagers, we have a great understanding, and this is just basically, I'm healing from some of the trauma in my life that I passed off to my children, because I didn't realize I was actually doing but I don't have a specific, like, a specific chapter that we've been through that I've actually, oh, this points out, because I think I take in a lot of information from him, just actually being passionate and

Unknown Speaker  21:18  
delivering the right information.

Speaker 3  21:21  
All aspects of the group really like it. At first, I was kind of really upset because I'm like, I'm being punished for something that I don't know. It's not even but at the end of the day, I do want to show you guys that I'm capable, so I'm volunteering. So

Unknown Speaker  21:36  
I would say everything,

Speaker 1  21:38  
okay, thank you. Ahmed, do you understand a little bit? No, okay, I was feeling a little guilty. Okay. Well, because he's just sitting there, I feel a little guilty, okay, like

Speaker 7  21:54  
what he said, it's basically like everything, like chat about Chapter, you learn something new. It's teaching me more about, like, getting into my feelings, especially since I have like, a daughter, and she's more sensitive, so I try to level down to her, nothing else. Vladimir, oh, sorry, that's okay. Thank you.

Speaker 8  22:23  
Opinion part is you realize, when you attend this program, you realize is there are people who are in a similar boat and similar situation, and everyone has his own story and some

Speaker 8  22:40  
reassuring and I feel just that it's probably was best, okay,

Unknown Speaker  22:50  
thank you.

Speaker 4  22:55  
I would kind of say what all looks like. We're talking about feelings and whatnot, and think where there was another one we're talking about, like discipline. I think maybe it was discipline and a child or something, you know, things of that nature when my son is one. So I'm just trying to learn whatever I can, because it's all like knowledge I can use in the future when my son gets bigger. But, you know, that was a part I think stuck out to me the most. Thank you.

Speaker 1  23:30  
Okay, what about times? And so this question is about, how have you felt supported within this program? Yes, gonna give you an example too. Yeah, you didn't let me finish. You said, Yes, all right, give me an example.

Unknown Speaker  23:45  
Um, basically, like,

Speaker 2  23:54  
made me feel like I wasn't everybody here. I wasn't the only one, because I felt like I was alone in certain cases, like I couldn't talk to anybody about certain things, because we're men, we're fathers, we're supposed to not express emotion that much. But you learn different when you come in this

Unknown Speaker  24:16  
program. Thank you, like do you

Speaker 1  24:21  
feel supported in this program? And can you give me an example? And even if you don't feel supported, can you give me an example

Unknown Speaker  24:33  
of that as well? I don't think that's really something I feel

Speaker 5  24:38  
but I have appreciated hold on passion and consistency, and you really seem to want to explain and help and listen. That's nice. Okay? Thank you.

Speaker 1  24:56  
No matter what what is being said here, it's to improve. Of the program and help us plug gaps in this, in organizations and in systems and to and if we need to create other resources or find other resources, that's what that's one of the purpose. Those are three of the purposes I said, of what we're of this recording of what I what, because when i So, let me explain, because I don't think you were here for this or like I've done this across multiple communities of people in different stages of life, healing, whatever, addicts in prison, in jail, homeless, women, men, kids, even little kids under five or between five and 10, because they have a lot to say, and they're so unfiltered. It's great. With parents permission, I take all that information and I create a summary of it, and I present the report to our boss and suggestions on how to improve, how to plug or create. And I also provide, at the end, I hope to provide a booklet of living resources, meaning that I'm just not going to give a phone number, but actually find a person that will respond to you when you call or when you email. Thank you. So I just want you to know that whatever said here is for the benefit of the program, and then helps me help help everybody, not just in family nurture, but in the community that I work in with resources. It's not like your Miranda rights. It is not and there's no wrong around there's no wrong or right answer. It's whatever you share. Okay, this is a safe space, and if it's not, you can come find me. I'm in cotton square

Unknown Speaker  26:54  
next to you,

Unknown Speaker  26:58  
Rob, we start game

Speaker 6  27:02  
respectful. It was respectful. You know, some stuff I wasn't a couple weeks ago,

Unknown Speaker  27:12  
still intense enough. You know, it's I don't

Speaker 6  27:17  
necessarily need a lot of support, but yet, it's available.

Unknown Speaker  27:25  
Thank you,

Speaker 3  27:27  
Dana, I feel like it has been, it's been really good. And I feel like I said, as a group together, we do support each other by taking part as an experience. The one is very passionate when he gives out the information he gives out, which helps us take it in. Maybe every everybody takes in things differently. But I feel like the knowledge he gives information, and it actually is supportive and feeds us every, every time we're comfortable. So I'm like, I said, I'm I feel like I'm supported in the group, because I'm not the only one going through a situation, multiple other people, different situations as well. I feel like it is important. Thank you. Eliza,

Unknown Speaker  28:21  
he takes my speech and one upset. First,

Speaker 1  28:31  
we can play bingo, and then whoever gets the number won't have to speak. I'm sorry. Go ahead. Eli, it,

Speaker 7  28:44  
yeah, it's just, it's good to know that I'm not the only one going through this, especially since, like, like, what you're saying, that's like, oh, like, what? Why am I doing this? And then after a couple weeks, it's like, Alright, whatever. Like, at least, if I'm well, be here to learn something and take it with me throughout life. So

Unknown Speaker  29:05  
that's it. That's

Unknown Speaker  29:07  
it. Thank you.

Speaker 8  29:09  
I actually was indeed supported. I asked Lavan for support letter court and wrote nice letter, and I don't know if it was helpful, but this was really direct support that I had really efficient, good I'm glad To hear

Unknown Speaker  29:37  
that Tommy's the question again,

Unknown Speaker  29:43  
it's okay. The question was, I didn't

Speaker 7  29:49  
feel supported. Oh, thank you. Do you feel support?

Unknown Speaker  29:52  
Yes, yeah, provide an example. Well,

Speaker 4  29:56  
maybe you text a little lawn. He'll text bat, you know, I mean, but. Hmm, you know, if you have questions or whatever, but yes, I feel supported here. I don't know why. You know, I was going through some things with my I was living with some roommates, and wasn't like, you know, before I moved there, they told me it was like a family friendly environment. And now I moved in, everybody was messed up on something.

Unknown Speaker  30:23  
It wasn't that at all.

Speaker 4  30:26  
And yeah, it was. But at the end, like people said, like the kid ate my eggs, like STOLE MY FUCKING scooter and then called the cops on me, asking for a restraining order. I Facebook, like, he's like, he's a big gangster on top of it, like, and then, and then I move out, and he puts on Facebook, oh, that piece of shit. Still, he moved out, but he stole my son's scooter, which I've had this scooter for two fucking years. I got two of them from Amazon. I had one. I was living on the Pon today. I have someone stole one there. I wasn't gonna let somebody still want to get I don't even need it. Have a car, but it's a $400 school. I'll give it to my kid, you know? I'm not gonna give it to some corner, you know? I mean some Facebook corners, like, you know, but now there's people like, Oh, yeah. We'll start a go from before, yeah, yeah. Go give them money for my scooter. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  31:28  
that can buy his kids Christmas presents. Like, really,

Unknown Speaker  31:33  
I'm just sick of it here.

Unknown Speaker  31:39  
Yeah, let's go start a GoFundMe for

Speaker 1  31:41  
Yeah, so you had that experience, and you were saying that lawan or the program helps you,

Unknown Speaker  31:51  
I had to admire Mr. Bryson's character,

Speaker 9  31:57  
because I know some other fathers who could have been in very similar situations,

Unknown Speaker  32:02  
take it to a whole another level. Then,

Speaker 4  32:04  
you know, my Yeah, so much credit for that. Yeah. Every little Yeah. I mean everything, everything, surprise, you know, I mean, but usually, every time there's like, a 911, but, you know, I don't know the kid, you know, I think the cops must have laughed at him, like you owe your landlord $21,000 you haven't paid the rent in a year, and you're trying to kick me out like I don't, I don't get it for you. People are insane. I don't

Speaker 4  32:34  
know. I pulled the property deed and everything. I mean, I went to because you do have, like you said so much, you do have rights. It doesn't matter if you have that. Nobody can kick you out of them, just even if they're on the lease. You know, if you have a key and you sleep in there, you're a resident.

Speaker 1  32:51  
Well, thank you. So now we're going to take the focus off the family nurturing center and this program, the nurturing father program. Now I'm going to ask you about an experience where you didn't feel supported. Yes, so let's think about that, where you did not feel supported. What if you can't answer that? How did you say you don't answer it? Pass. Okay. Are you passing? Yes, I'm passing. Okay, well, thank you, Christian,

Unknown Speaker  33:23  
I've had that card in my pocket

Unknown Speaker  33:28  
where you have not

Speaker 1  33:31  
in any part of your life. Is there like I've not felt supported? Are you passing too? I'm not sure I've ever felt supported. Oh, okay, can you pick right that? No, that's a second

Speaker 5  33:49  
that emotion. No. I mean, wrote a very nice letter, but I don't think anyone read

Speaker 9  33:53  
literally. I sent it twice to the attorney to solicit a response on did you get this letter? And I took my second email for them to respond. Oh, I received it. Thank you. That was it. I

Unknown Speaker  34:07  
received it. I just didn't read it.

Speaker 1  34:12  
Well, that's a good perfect Yeah, that's a perfect example. Okay, Rob, when

Speaker 6  34:24  
I first COVID involved the DCF thing, but I wasn't going to any groups like this. Now, I get to him in this

Unknown Speaker  34:31  
Wednesday. I can go in the daytime.

Unknown Speaker  34:39  
Couple things going and

Speaker 1  34:42  
you didn't feel supported going to those at the beginning.

Speaker 6  34:48  
I just happened, you know, DCF come involved.

Speaker 3  35:00  
Dana, there was only one time since I've been coming to this group that I didn't feel supported because one of the one of the one of the followers, was just saying some things, and I just mean, it just made me feel really uncomfortable for everybody in the room for those things, the fact that everybody's supposed to be here for each other and understanding there was just a lot of negativity that day, that group day, from one person to the China that's I just didn't feel uncomfortable that day. Other than that, I've been bothering situation. I'm not gonna like take anybody as a joke, or I'm taking everything as well. That's that's the only time, only one time that was due to another

Unknown Speaker  35:52  
father that was supposed to be participating as well in the

Speaker 9  35:56  
group. Okay, so it's a good point that you don't feel supported when you come to programs and participants don't take it seriously,

Unknown Speaker  36:03  
yes, yes, yeah,

Speaker 1  36:07  
that's what. That's not good and it's negative. It brings

Speaker 3  36:10  
negative energy. Yes, okay, I like I said, I control myself. So I just waited and we thought about it, and I had spoken to Mr. Curry about it. The following week,

Unknown Speaker  36:28  
we had understanding,

Speaker 1  36:33  
okay, Eli, it doesn't have to be about this group can be about anything. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  36:46  
support. Pass on this word, all right,

Unknown Speaker  36:50  
you pass into Yeah, Tommy,

Unknown Speaker  36:54  
no, we mean supported, yeah,

Speaker 1  36:57  
like somebody, like someone had your back, helping you out, not helping you out, with that example that he gave about the apartment,

Speaker 4  37:07  
it was perfect. But I guess you know my mother helped. You know, she gave me money to put the deposit down, which helps, because I am laid off right now. So you know that will help, you know? I mean, which you know, which you know, it was a good chunk of change. She didn't have to do that, you know, but she wants to help get my grandson home so, you know, and I hope he comes home. But other than that, you know, like the BMC told me I could go to work this, that, and, you know, my son's mother had some type of mental breakdown, some delusions or something.

Unknown Speaker  37:53  
I get, yes, I

Speaker 4  37:57  
there was a, I got a quick this time, like last year I was doing, it took me five months, but that's because I was looking for my, my son and his I was looking for three people, and she didn't have good credit, so I couldn't really, you know? I mean, it wasn't that easy, but this time, just for myself, I got it like that, yeah. I mean, yeah, you know, I just, I wish, like, this state was more supportive for fathers, yeah, like, I don't know. Thank you.

Speaker 1  38:36  
This is an easy question. This one. It's one of the last questions, one of the last one of that there's one one more after this one, and then that's it. That, what do you worry about day to day?

Unknown Speaker  38:52  
This is a general question. It's not related. They

Speaker 9  38:55  
can grab out of the air. Yes, you may please, like, housing, food, transportation, transportation, legal services, health care. You can pick any one of those. If you don't have one, you

Unknown Speaker  39:08  
can think about it. So I'm gonna give you 30 seconds to think about it. No one's passing. I would say

Speaker 2  39:16  
that was I started to start a trend here. I would say probably transportation and legal services. That's

Speaker 1  39:22  
what you worry about every day, on a daily basis. Okay, can I get an example? Well, because they read abroad,

Speaker 2  39:33  
me and my fiance were on Section eight, and the little bit of money that we do get, I mean, we don't have to pay that much in rent at all, but utilities is a motherfucker, so almost all of our money goes into that. So for us to get around anywhere like,

Unknown Speaker  39:55  
how do we get bus passes without any money?

Speaker 2  39:59  
And. We were told that if we asked our DCF workers, they're supposed to provide us bus passes. But we've been asking our DCS workers since July, and we haven't gotten

Speaker 4  40:11  
any. They're supposed to be on jobs every time, doing their job.

Speaker 2  40:15  
Every week we go to a visit. We ask, Oh, I forgot, or they don't have any this month, and it's like, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  40:25  
okay, thank you, Oleg.

Speaker 5  40:30  
Difficulty has been, uh, finding care help for my son. Um, there was actually someone that we were counting on that was like, you know, yeah, like, this is something I can help with. And then, and then, like, right after he was born, she was like, no, no, I've done enough childcare. And,

Unknown Speaker  40:58  
yeah, we just don't have a lot of

Speaker 5  41:02  
family. In the area. We don't know who to ask for that sort of thing. And like, you know, there's like websites, there's like, care.com, but like, neither of us really, you know, like me and my wife, we make phone calls. We don't want to, like, interview and like, I don't know, figure that out. So we've really been Thank you.

Speaker 10  41:33  
Rob the kids, basically, it's

Unknown Speaker  41:42  
just every day you wouldn't

Unknown Speaker  41:46  
think about something else and thinking about that same time,

Unknown Speaker  41:57  
I regret it.

Unknown Speaker  42:04  
Thank you, Dana, the

Speaker 3  42:10  
only thing I really worry about is my children, because they teenagers now, and they travel a lot, you know, they do a lot of conditions by themselves. And also, I'm more worried about them daily if the worker that I'm dealing with is doing his job. Because, as far as my housing part of that, because when I get a phone call from the worker saying that he's meeting with a housing advocate, and he calls me back and tells me, I need to cut my hours to 50% of that normally, from 40 to 20, that seems like you don't have the right information. Because how can I how can I survive in life for 20 hours and have two teenagers? But he said I need to work 20 hours to get the shelter. So I don't think he's really doing his job the proper way, because that doesn't make any sense. More outlets than just what he's telling me. So that's what I worry about on the daily, because my son needs me right now, and that's why I'm in this Chris COVID, you know, so that's my those are my that's like my worry every day I'm going to be able to get housing with him, because I'm doing all the proper things that they asked me to do. But I also feel like I'm not being met halfway. So I feel like, Am I doing it for to cover him, or am I doing it to better the situation that's that's my own,

Speaker 10  43:35  
my kids. Okay? Thank you. Me take a deep breath, yep,

Unknown Speaker  43:47  
only worry every, every day,

Unknown Speaker  43:53  
enough hours at work,

Speaker 7  43:57  
always having to move. But it's crazy, because the more you make, the more child support the pm gets. So I don't even know, do I work more hours, because the overtime is not taxed, but then I can only max out at 60 hours, and if I get a second job she takes from that second job or neither. So it's like, but other than that, it's a little hiccup right now, but once I get more, once I get more custody of my daughter, the child support comes down. So until then, I'm just, actually, I'm getting played a child support every day, every week. $300 a week is crazy. So

Speaker 9  44:39  
I want to say that. I want to say that fathers, men don't feel supported in getting ahead in the United States, it's always like, oh, I need a I need a completely other job at 40 hours under the table. Yeah, there's no like government benefits that's going. Allow us to work less and get paid more to take care of our children. So I think a lot of the benefits for women to kind of advance, right? Even if it's housing, they have the edge,

Speaker 2  45:18  
yeah, because a father could be just a regular guy with no criminal history doesn't do drugs, but the women have the woman has custody of the child, and you have to pay her. Well, that's

Speaker 9  45:27  
a little bit yesterday, and I can understand it, even from a biological perspective, that if you're not and this this came up because if you're not legally married, then the benefits goes automatically to the mom every time. We understand that, every time, no matter what, by default, sometimes even if the situation doesn't prevail like the dad could be more economically sound, and the kids could be going to school where the dad lives, like I've seen that in a divorce, and the custody still goes to the mom. That was a divorce. I believe the dad was on, no, he wasn't on those, those children's birth certificate. There's so many little pieces where our eyes have to be dotted and T's have to be crossed for us to even have that equality when it comes to parenting.

Speaker 3  46:22  
No, the DCF worker told me itself that, oh, I apologize. We dropped the ball with fathers. He told me that, like the worker told me that. So that that says that says it all.

Speaker 9  46:34  
There's a saying for black men that we have to work a little bit harder to be looked at.

Unknown Speaker  46:42  
And I think it's the same for fathers that we have to work a little bit harder to be looked at.

Speaker 1  46:49  
Thank you. Vlad merits, your turn

Unknown Speaker  46:54  
day to day, worries

Speaker 8  46:59  
I'm going through the high conflict divorce, and I worry about the parental radiation that's I feel that my children are getting cooler and cooler towards me, and I worry that eventually, that they'll sort of break us apart. There is nothing they can go at this point. And

Speaker 9  47:24  
I can add to that by saying that the courts view dads on paper before they view dad present like before they see what he's doing presently. They are judging him on paper first.

Speaker 4  47:38  
No, they're judging me for my past. They don't judge me for anything I did for my son, they don't bring up. Say, I go on him a new home. None of this stuff they bring up, thanks from 10 years ago. You know, they bring up things from like over 10 years ago. Oh,

Speaker 9  47:54  
you farted in high school. And what do you mean in high school? I i found it I was in high school. Are you kidding me? She did fentanyl yesterday.

Unknown Speaker  48:07  
Yeah, yeah. Doesn't matter.

Speaker 4  48:11  
Yeah, they could get out of jail for stabbing a girl in the face and get their kids back. Yeah, you could get go. They could get out of Framingham for stabbing a girl in the face and get

Speaker 9  48:21  
their kids back. Guys, guys, Father's not even been in the child's life, going through the rigmarole with a mother's boyfriend is visiting the child, and he's like, he's carrying a gun on him, doing the visits, because they don't even know. I've heard some horror stories, right? The child's the boyfriend is not even involved in the child's life. It's the mother is, but he's seeing the child and the father isn't. Yo, it's crazy. It's crazy. What's going on? You can't make this sorry.

Unknown Speaker  48:59  
That's okay. I'm here for all of it. This is, this is the last question

Speaker 1  49:09  
in 10 years. How would you like Boston to operate with you all, with the fathers? Well, that's a good question, to work with you guys as fathers. How what would it look like in 10 years from now? How would we like it to look yes, yeah. How would you like right? I'm sorry, how would you like it to look like? How would you like Boston to work with fathers? Oh, not yet.

Unknown Speaker  49:40  
I got one, I know you did in 10 years. That's a lot to say. Think about

Unknown Speaker  49:51  
systems and laws.

Unknown Speaker  49:54  
That's exactly what I'm thinking about. Yeah,

Speaker 1  49:56  
well, we can popcorn it. If you have a thought, share it. I.

Unknown Speaker  50:01  
You, anybody, mine was this that

Speaker 1  50:07  
you can, can i Yes, because it might spark

Speaker 9  50:11  
something. No, because it's so good. This is what we're going this is what we're up against right now. Yes, when a father is battling for custody, and the mother has physical custody of the children, and the father has visits with the children, but they're based on the mother's schedule, and the mother doesn't come through with those visits, she'll say the child sick can't visit. You know why? She'll say the child has of music, whatever program at school. My point is, there's no nothing ever happens to the mom for not obeying what the court has ordered. There's nothing that they there's nothing for not complying. So in 10 years, how would you like to see? I would like to see some community service and something attached to that for the mom to be more liable and responsible for those, for those missed situations, accountability, absolutely, for each and every one of those missed situations. It should be like, you know, some, some, community service added to it, not necessarily a financial, you know, slap, because she's obviously a mom taking custody. I get it, but there has to be some sort of something that the mom has to be responsible for, and right now, and there isn't. So there she the mothers are doing whatever they, whatever they Well, there's no justice. There's no There's no justice. But she doesn't abide by what the court has mandated for the father to so the court pretty much said,

Speaker 2  51:46  
we just want to be treated fairly, basically, just just, just like the women. You don't want them. We don't want, how do I say this? We don't want no special treatment, but we want to be seen as how we are as men, what I'm saying, and how we carry ourselves, like like I was saying earlier. Okay, me and my fiance were still together. We had a partner together, everything. We're getting our kid back, but the fact of everything we had to go through to get here is it was total lacks on the system. The system is not fair. My my fiance, had no deals with the system. She's never been arrested, nothing like that. So when, when she looked, when she gave birth and DCF got involved, I already knew what time it is. I have three other girls in Florida, so I told her. I was like, I told her what was going to happen, what they're going to ask her, how she should respond. And she was like, Well, no, I'm just going to tell her truth, and which the truth wasn't bad,

Unknown Speaker  52:53  
but it was still basically putting herself out there.

Unknown Speaker  52:58  
So

Speaker 2  53:00  
like I said, when they did, when they didn't do the drug test before they did after, I think we got screwed, and we had no help to fight that, and then right after that happened, like, a couple months down the road, we hear that there's basically we heard, I don't know if it's true or not, but, um, we did ask around. They said it's true, but I'm really not even too sure about it. But, um, they're basically, they're stopped. They're stopping the point to where they're taking kids from their parents at birth because a drug test, they're stopping it, and that's what it was. So when we heard that, we're like, That's bullshit. Good. Because we weren't bad parents, and basically, I think they used that as a like a cover up for the simple fact of we were homeless. When she gave birth, we're at the shelter, she started going through labor at the shelter. So when we're in a hospital and they asked us that, we told them, but they had got us into a scattered site before we left, but DCF had already stepped in there, had made up their mind and everything. So we got screwed in that Passman,

Speaker 1  54:13  
so you're asking for justice in two different yes ways.

Speaker 5  54:23  
Are childcare, I guess systems that, yeah, aren't so overly expensive and privatized, and maybe it should be a completely different approach, like and, yeah, I mean, this is, this is where you're coming from. You're asking what the government what the government should do. It's not really the government's place. Is the community's place, but that's not a thing anymore, so it's hard to say what the government should do to fix that. So, yeah, you.

Unknown Speaker  55:01  
I guess Rob, I

Unknown Speaker  55:03  
don't really have anything

Unknown Speaker  55:04  
for this one. Really. You

Speaker 1  55:06  
don't know what you would like Boston to look like for fathers in 10 years.

Unknown Speaker  55:17  
It's okay. I

Unknown Speaker  55:31  
I don't think that

Speaker 3  55:34  
men have the same equal opportunity as some of the women's when it comes to these systems and these programs like as in, Mr. COVID said, he said, When coming to certain situations, we don't have the same rights I feel to get the new assistant how the women is designed. So I like to see that change. But for us, men that are trying and are fighting for our children that want to be in their lives, because

Unknown Speaker  56:02  
children need two parents, you know. And obviously,

Speaker 3  56:06  
if we're here, then we want things to change. But sometimes it feels like it's not doing justice, sometimes. So I like to see that change as far as the same equal opportunities, the same rights, as far as the same resources for everybody.

Speaker 7  56:28  
Eli, probably just like more options for like childcare, like daycares and stuff cheaper, because there's crazy expensive. So

Speaker 9  56:41  
I think on that note too, is more shelters. I like to see just as many shelters for men as there are for women. It's an it's an unbelief. There are no shelters for men in in Boston, I know, and one gentleman does. The next closest one is in framing here, yep, one, one

Unknown Speaker  56:59  
gentleman shared yesterday that

Speaker 9  57:01  
more men are getting custody of their children, right? So,

Speaker 1  57:04  
so one gentleman shared yesterday that he was talking to someone and the services offered to women weren't necessarily offered to men, which could be about funding that this is, this is what this is, right, the suggestion I made to him was when, when you hear stuff like that, who do I get to talk to to help me as a father, who? Where can I go? Where they're helping fathers who have custody or getting custody of their children, right? So, like he was saying that the woman that he spoke to, she was, was in the shelter, got her cell phone paid and what, some stuff off. Her credit report was paid. But when he asked, like, could he also get those same services? They said no, and it's true, and it could be and it could be based on on funding, it could be based on a lot of different things, and it could be just be based because the people are just jerks. But the question, the follow up question, is always, Well, where can I go to get that for me as a father who's getting custody or who has custody of my child, I need to have my phone on while

Unknown Speaker  58:16  
father's rights commission.

Speaker 1  58:18  
You know, we shouldn't put one together, but UCF has

Unknown Speaker  58:21  
nothing to do with Yeah.

Speaker 1  58:25  
So, so those are, those are questions that can be asked and no one, and the answer could be, I don't know, or there's none.

Unknown Speaker  58:35  
Well, let, can I speak to your supervisor, because maybe they know,

Speaker 1  58:39  
because women are quick to be like, well, I'll just go over your head. Women are quick because they want control. They want power, right?

Unknown Speaker  58:49  
That's the same way as it might be.

Unknown Speaker  59:00  
I'm not sure what

Speaker 8  59:04  
I would see Boston will do in 10 years. I think the whole process, which maybe should transition from, and it's, again, it's a completely sort of off topic. Maybe, I think it's should abolish the no fault divorce, because it's really not fair. I

Unknown Speaker  59:22  
think it has to be at fault divorce. And

Speaker 8  59:26  
this is my sort of, like the only, I mean, it's not necessarily Boston, but it's the entire state. I think if someone screwed up, they need to be responsible. How responsible for the screwed up marriage and screwed up kids.

Unknown Speaker  59:42  
This is the only suggestion. It's

Unknown Speaker  59:44  
a good suggestion. Thank you, Tommy.

Speaker 4  59:51  
No, it's just like he was saying it's not fair, like I was going to file. Well, I went to go file for casa. Be right. I go down to the barrister courthouse. This was back last January, February. They make me go to Middlesex court because my son's mother was in a shelter for like, a couple days in Middlesex County. So I had to go all the way to Lowell District Court, which I wasn't driving yet. And it didn't make it easy on me. I went to the first one and the second one. I didn't want to turn down work, and I didn't. I wish, you know, maybe it would have went, maybe I'd have them now, I don't, you know. I mean, I don't know, but they, you know? I mean, it doesn't, because now the judge was keeping her with the mother either way, you know. And I didn't have a paid lawyer, so I probably wanted a one, yeah, but now I gotta wait till this whole thing is over with DCF to file for custody, but I don't know. I'm trying to work things out. My son's like, we're kind of on better terms than we were. She helped me move in, but it just not feel like he said it's there's no equality for father's rights. Like she disappeared for two months, and I've been making every visit. And did I get to see him on Thanksgiving? No, she go, you know. I mean, I don't know when

Unknown Speaker  1:01:08  
it comes to, like I said, the system is just not as funny.

Speaker 4  1:01:11  
And like I get, you know, it's like them. It's, this is my first kid. She has all the kids, you know, this is my first kid I, you know, I haven't messed up with other kids down the road, like I just don't understand, like, why I'm being, you know, like I'm getting punished, you know, like, maybe I chose the wrong person, but, you know, I got a good head on my shoulders. I should have my son. He shouldn't be in a stranger's home. Yeah, and that's what you know. It gets me every day. So

Speaker 9  1:01:44  
the other piece that I want to add to that on on mister Bryce's point is reducing the time span

Unknown Speaker  1:01:55  
of a kid being in custody

Unknown Speaker  1:01:58  
when a father's active.

Speaker 4  1:02:04  
And they're talking about giving them back in May. I just, you know, I mean, I'm hoping it's sooner they're talking about May. That'll be a whole fucking year.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:13  
I know so many kids that are going through so much trauma

Speaker 9  1:02:16  
in their last months of being reunited with their dad that it didn't have to happen. You know what I'm saying? Like,

Speaker 4  1:02:26  
DCF custody for two years? Sure. No, he cries every time I put him in the car seat. He starts crying. He's crying yesterday. He's releasing. Yeah,

Speaker 2  1:02:36  
my daughter be two next week, right? And I've done everything DCF has asked me for, and the messed up thing is my not to put on the bus around like that, but my fiance had the allegation on her. I had to forcefully tell DCF that I'm gonna do the programs that she's doing. I'm gonna get involved like she is. I'm gonna do the piss test every week like she's doing. Had to forcefully tell him that because it was like, What are you doing? Everything's unheard you don't have to do anything. They're basically trying to push me out a picture. I was like, No, I'm going to stand right here

Speaker 4  1:03:07  
next up. Yeah, they go. They got involved in September. Two

Speaker 2  1:03:11  
years I've had a had a dirty piss test. I've done parenting classes. Yeah, they actually try to put up for adoption. Jesus Christ. Like six seven, and I've done everything to ask me for and the muscle thing is they're on my back more than her back. They just want to make sure that she's clean. But me, I have to do counseling, psychiatrists, recovery coaching, all that they're on my back about all that, they basically made me feel like I had to take this class, which, at first I didn't want to, but now I'm thankful I'm doing it, but they, they're making me feel like I'm I have to do more than she's doing.

Speaker 4  1:03:50  
Like this was just happened to me the other day at the foster care review. I was told, yeah, we both do one class a week, two hours, but her class counts for all of them. So no, I

Speaker 3  1:04:01  
was I was told that I had to do this class in order for me to receive custody of my my son. But then the worker turns around and calls me and tells me I have to have, I have to be working 20 hours a week to be eligible to be to go into a shelter. That's

Unknown Speaker  1:04:20  
crazy. How does that even work?

Speaker 3  1:04:23  
Well, you can talk to your job to see if you can cut your hours, reduce your hours from 20, from 40 hours plus to 20 hours. And then when you get in the shelter, you can go back. That's

Speaker 9  1:04:34  
what my my attorney friends in Florida, was studying the affordable Cares Act. You have to be making a certain amount to get government funding, to get government support. And they're telling you, yeah,

Speaker 3  1:04:46  
they're like, they're like, oh, you can't make, you can't make $3,000 you have to make under $3,000 a month in order for you to go to the shelter with your son. But I'm doing this. I'm doing this course, because this is you want me to prove who I am. So proving who I am in the process. But get to. Would

Speaker 9  1:05:00  
mean it's like the, it's like the welfare reform hadn't had to push women to work 20 hours plus because they weren't going to work and receiving full benefits.

Speaker 4  1:05:10  
No, I remember that. Yeah, I can't go do the therapy and stuff, because I lost my mass out. I work. I work too much. You know, I lost my mass out. So if they want, like, drug test or anything they I'm gonna have to pay for it out of pocket. You know, my medical benefits don't kick until February. So you should qualify for mass health now. I think I would now, because now I'm laid off, I'm not making what I was making. Just

Speaker 9  1:05:35  
to add to that, more legal representation, yes, financially feasible representation for fathers.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:44  
I've been laid off almost my

Unknown Speaker  1:05:45  
worker keeps asking me, like

Unknown Speaker  1:05:49  
for a job if I'm trying to get a job. But

Speaker 2  1:05:52  
you know what my schedule looks like? I Every week we give you a day to day basis on what we do. We go to meetings, a meetings. I see my counselor, my recovery coach, that's like a full time job in itself. Plus I'm on medication. I take antipsychotics, you know, I'm saying I, I, I have PTSD. I take medication for that. I'm trying to get, um, so, like, disability, yeah, absolutely. You should definitely qualify them that absolutely. And they don't get into their head every time, every time I see, you like every two or three weeks, shacks, same questions, are you working with any veterans union? No, oh, you are. You're a military No, okay, okay,

Speaker 3  1:06:33  
that's good. I need to speak to a supervisor on Monday. Yes,

Speaker 1  1:06:36  
you do. That's exactly what you need to speak to. Let me turn this off so I.

