Speaker 1  0:00  
All right, here we go. How y'all doing? Good morning. All right, so this is a conversation around safety, safety, community safety and community violence. Conversation is being recorded. My name is Mari dena. We're at 15 Elmhurst Street and Baxter, please introduce yourself, and if you let us know if you consent to being recorded. Yeah,

Speaker 2  0:27  
hey, my name is Baxter, um, I consent to being recorded. How you feeling today? I'm good. I'm good today. I'm happy to be

Unknown Speaker  0:34  
here. Happy to have you, Huckleberry.

Unknown Speaker  0:37  
My name is Huckleberry.

Unknown Speaker  0:41  
I do consent to being recorded.

Unknown Speaker  0:43  
How you feeling today? Huckleberry.

Unknown Speaker  0:50  
I'm sorry, Eustace. Hello guys.

Speaker 3  0:57  
My name Eustace. I consent to be recorded.

Speaker 1  1:01  
How you doing today. Eustace, I'm tired. Okay. Fiona,

Speaker 4  1:07  
Hi, I'm Fiona. Consent to beer recorded. How you doing

Speaker 1  1:11  
today. Okay, okay. Earlene,

Speaker 5  1:17  
my name is Earlene, Hi, Rick, I'm

Unknown Speaker  1:26  
um, my name is Samuel, and I consent to be

Speaker 6  1:34  
recorded. Thank you. Hi, me,

Speaker 1  1:43  
here we go. So here are some ground rules for this conversation. Speak for yourself and only of your own experiences. Allow others to speak for themselves. Share the time, allow others to finish speaking. Stay curious, ask honest questions, and I'll let you know when that happens, take the moment to pause and think about the question, listen generous. Generously assume good intentions, while recognizing that your words have an impact when possible. Close unnecessary prowess, and that's for me, if we need to take a moment and leave the room, that's good too. But you know. Just let me know you're allowed to pass and come back to you also. This is the Vegas rule. What says? What is said, Here, stays here. Please don't let me have to come look for y'all.

Unknown Speaker  2:33  
Okay, understood? Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:34  
yes, thank you.

Speaker 1  2:39  
So the first question is, we're going to start with the easy questions. First, I don't have it

Unknown Speaker  2:49  
open first. First question here is, we're

Unknown Speaker  2:54  
gonna start with back stuff. Do

Speaker 1  3:05  
okay, if you can share a story about your journey, how you came to be in Boston, or what brought your family here?

Speaker 2  3:13  
Yeah, um, so my family isn't from Boston. I'm, I'm, I'm from Virginia. Um, so I came up here because of college. Actually, I went to it's okay to share information. Okay. Went to Emerson College for journalism. And I, while in college, I saw how many people, like went to college here, either to the place that I went, or other places, and they were kind of treated like a transient city, and I was a little bit bothered by that, because, as I you know, of course, the pandemic kind of interrupted my stay in Boston for a little bit, I still saw how people kind of treated the city, not with the respect I think it deserves. And like this, it has a very interesting past and present and future. So I wanted to stay because I found community, and I wanted to kind of keep that community growing. So I'm really, really happy to be in Boston still. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  4:09  
Uncle Barry,

Speaker 7  4:15  
my father, he came, he came here around I came around like when he was about 20 years old, but give or take, but pretty much he came here for a better life. My mom, she came from, well, she's from Boston, not Boston, she's from Maryland, and she came here for home reasons, for like, Independence reasons, and so I guess that's how I'm here. I didn't always live in in Boston. I used to live like, way outside of edges of Massachusetts, you can say. But I. My grandmother being here is the reason why in Boston so

Unknown Speaker  5:25  
I was born. I was born Charlotte, North Carolina.

Unknown Speaker  5:36  
My mom

Unknown Speaker  5:40  
migrated here from

Unknown Speaker  5:44  
from North Carolina

Speaker 3  5:48  
looking for a better life. There's a lot of stuff going on with my dad and drugs and all type of crazy things. So my mom just was like, No, she didn't want that for her children. So took this. So she brought us all.

Unknown Speaker  6:10  
Brought us all here. Now we're here.

Unknown Speaker  6:14  
Thank you.

Speaker 4  6:18  
I was born in Boston, the only one in my family, born in Boston, raised here. My whole life, I've probably moved out of Boston for like, less than half a year on both times. Um, my mother grew up in Ohio and left because things just weren't working out for her. So she left with my sister, who was three, so around 96 and then 2000 here, 2000 came around. I was born, and I've been here ever since. The only other places that I've lived were in Western Massachusetts and Missouri. Both of them were interesting experiences, not in like, a good way. They were just interesting, and I'll leave it at that ear lane.

Speaker 5  7:12  
Um, I was born and raised in Boston my entire life. I live in Mattapan, um, I lived almost on the same block my entire life. So is my dad. He just moved next door.

Speaker 5  7:32  
My mom is she was born in Boston, but she lived in DC for a while, and she was actually gonna move down there, but my dad proposed, so she decided to stay DC connections. Thank you.

Speaker 8  7:54  
So my name is Samuel, like Earlene. I was born and raised in Boston. My mom and my dad are both from Boston. My family, well, my maternal family is from North Carolina, and they moved here after like the sharecropping like era. My great grandfather was a sharecropper. He decided to leave because of some legal stuff, and he changed his name once he got up here. So my grandmother and a couple of her siblings left North Carolina, came up here and just settled up here. But this is the place that I've known, aside from Providence, which is where I lived when I went to college,

Unknown Speaker  8:37  
until the pandemic, and then I moved back

Speaker 1  8:41  
home. Thank you. So we only have three actual indigenous folks here,

Unknown Speaker  8:53  
these three over here, y'all weren't born here. Oh, I mean,

Unknown Speaker  8:57  
I was four. Okay, that's okay.

Speaker 3  9:01  
Neither was I indigenous. You. That,

Speaker 1  9:18  
here's the first question, did you describe a specific time when you felt really supported by your community in Boston? Is it just like Open Table? Nope, one in the round. Just giving you guys a few seconds to pull your stories together. Y'all have like 10 seconds Get it together. Make Okay,

Speaker 2  9:49  
first, Yes, Master, please. Um, so, I mean, I guess one I can think on top of my head, I'll probably have more when I'm like, two hours a. From here, but I worked at a horrible job

Unknown Speaker  10:07  
that some people at this table actually know about

Speaker 2  10:11  
in East Boston, and I didn't realize how toxic it was until people in my life were like, you should get out of here. Like you should be working somewhere else where they've where they value you, like this isn't what community work is supposed to be. It's not supposed to be something you're miserable about and get so stressed out about. People would constantly tell me to take breaks and sit down and calm down. It was just, it was just too much. It was Yeah. So, um, yeah, so I felt very valued with with the people that I met there. So that's why I stayed, because I was like, Well, if I leave, then I will never have contact with any of these people I've met here before again. So I was worried about being cut off in a lot of different ways. Um, it was kind of abusive. I don't know how to discriminate the relationship with my employer, but eventually I was I was fired with no reason given. I was on vacation. It was a Friday, and it was through a PDF. It was through a document. It was not even like a physical document. We wish it said I had to return everything. I was a case manager. I had to return everything. And that day, that same day, still on my vacation, on a Friday, so I had to call clients and tell them, hey, like, I can't help you with your housing search. I can't help you with the things that you're experiencing and all these different kinds of trauma, I had to, like, pawn them off to people around the community to try to find them, you know, resources so quickly. So hopefully I got my dog the next day. It was a really funny day, so, um, in that that same day, and then the following week, people would reach out to me and be really honest with like, how I was treated how people have been treated previously during in that job, and people were just really supportive, and I actually didn't lose those community connections. It's actually how I found my current job. It's, you know, why I feel really secure in the neighborhood I'm in still. So, yeah, I just, I really appreciate that people kind of went out of their way to talk with me and to reassure me that everything's going to be okay, and everything wasn't as big as I thought I was going to be at the time. So it was really lovely to have random phone calls from people that whole week just being like, I heard about the news, like, how are you doing? Like, we just kind of talked for a while and talked about different possibilities for the future, and I don't know, just kind of got to know people a little bit more. So it was really nice to feel supported by not just individuals, but it felt like a community. Thank you, Huckleberry. All right, so how you felt supported?

Unknown Speaker  13:06  
Felt very supported by

Unknown Speaker  13:10  
my community for allowing me to be a good my story, I

Unknown Speaker  13:18  
can come back to you if you like. Yeah, please. Okay, Eustace,

Unknown Speaker  13:30  
I can come back to you too,

Speaker 7  13:32  
apparently. Okay, how come Mary? So,

Unknown Speaker  13:38  
all right, so I

Speaker 7  13:43  
I was doing a pop up shop earlier on in the last year, and it was really hard trying to find a venue. And essentially it No, I came across people come a couple different connections that, um, I was able to, you know, find a space for my own pop up shop that I wanted to host. So I felt, I felt seen, and I felt, um, very, very, um supported. Because it was through someone that I didn't really know, but they seen the vision that I wanted, that I wanted to do for the community. And so it gave me the opportunity to do it, and was for free. So yeah, that was the time I felt supported by my community,

Unknown Speaker  14:30  
community of Dorchester, Roxbury, Mattapan. It was

Speaker 7  14:32  
more so around like it was like Dorchester. So it was two after the two instances, one in Dorchester and one of like, to make a plane. Ish,

Unknown Speaker  14:42  
thank you,

Unknown Speaker  14:46  
Eustace, are you ready? Or should I keep coming? Okay,

Speaker 4  14:51  
um, so there was one summer my mother was in the hospital for like, the entire summer, and that was. Particularly rough on me, on the whole house, because she's kind of like the glue that kept the house together. So we kind of struggled a lot, in the sense of just like, Oh no,

Unknown Speaker  15:15  
kind of we just struggled a lot. And

Speaker 4  15:19  
one way that I felt particularly supported was during the during that time in my community, I was still living over here in, like, Dorchester, just like neighbors that I knew, or Dick didn't know, would come up and, like, talk to me and introduce themselves to me. They'd be like, Hey, I'm so and so I went across the street. I remember, like, I've never seen you before ever I don't say that, but like, I would, like, just like, I've never seen you. Like, yeah, talk to your mother. We work together. Blah, blah, how is she? I know you heard she's in the hospital. She All right, and it was just like, having that, like, check in, like, process during the entirety of her stay in the hospital, kind of just like, kept me a little more focused, because I had, like, I had external support as well as internal support. And then sometimes we would have neighbors, they would stop me on the street and they'd be like, Hey, stay right there. I have to go get something at my house. And then they will go inside, and they come out with, like, pots of food and like, or like baked goods, like, No, you take it and then just give us the thing back. Give us our pot back. Never get the pot back. We still have it.

Unknown Speaker  16:30  
It's a nice pot. I'm not gonna lie.

Speaker 4  16:35  
It's just like that feeling of being able to lean on these people that my mom knows, and then to have her come back from the hospital and have her, like, kind of celebrated, in a way, it kind of just like, I don't know it's, it was really cute, like I felt supported. And I like that, um, with, I personally find that with food, there's community, because you can always, like, share a meal and get to know somebody the best over food, it's a little more easier to talk to people about things over like, food. Yeah. I mean, that's how I feel supported. I feel supported. I was supported, like, mentally and physically, with, like, being able to eat decent meals.

Unknown Speaker  17:25  
And then, yeah, I did not know that.

Unknown Speaker  17:32  
Miss Earlene, thank you.

Speaker 5  17:37  
I think I was, I was, I was 16 or 17. I used to, I started like I wanted to be a non profit, but, you know, down there, it got too complicated being in school and trying to do that in Boston anyways. So I organized with my ministry our first back to school drive out of Morning Star, which was really nice. Morning Star, on the record is a Baptist church in Mattapan, my home church, um, and, oh my gosh. Well, first I'm working at I'm I'm working a teen job or a youth job, and then doing this, like after after work. Every day I'm going to church to make sure everything's done. But there was this one, particularly youth pastor. I don't even work pastor. He worked in the youth department at a church. He like, nothing would get done in the youth department because of him. Like, he would just be like, oh, yeah, that's a great idea. It does nothing. So I had to, like, go over his head. Mind you, this is a man in his 40s, and I'm 17, so I'm like, having to go over his head, and just, I remember, just voicing my concerns to my mom, and she brings in this phenomenal woman who actually used to be my teacher at an elementary school, weird, Boston, small, and she's a wonderful business woman, and she was, she helped me, and I keep the principles that she taught me about how to have a backwards plan for the day of the event, everything that needs to be done the day of. And instead of thinking, oh, what can I do today to get there, we're already there, how do we move backwards? We ended up getting like, we got like, over, like, 250 backpacks for free that already had school supplies in there, along with all of the church people buying out the Amazon wishlist and more. My barber at the time came and did free haircuts. And then there was a hair station where one of the ministers there used to she has a cosmetology license. I was like, oh, that's that's new. That's new. So just watching the community come out for me, and that was very, very important. And it's like, there could be one person that says no, but a whole bunch of people that will say yes and help you move around that obstacle of a person take. That stuff,

Unknown Speaker  20:01  
wonderful. This is a Mattapan, yes.

Speaker 1  20:08  
Thank you. Um, Samuel,

Speaker 8  20:13  
um, I think the most like time that I felt like community was probably around my transition period, especially coming here, I didn't know how the people here would react, you know, like, religiously, but everyone was so, like, welcoming and would like asking me questions. I didn't have answers to what my name would be, how I wanted to present myself, and why, like, all these different questions. And then they were just so, like, accepting of it to the point where a lot of people don't even remember what my old name used to be,

Unknown Speaker  20:47  
or just never knew it. So

Speaker 8  20:50  
I was just like, that's kind of like, people actually really think that my name was just that letter. So I was just like, You know what? I believe this. Like, it's kind

Unknown Speaker  20:58  
of reaffirming even those kind of fun

Unknown Speaker  21:05  
thank you. That was great.

Unknown Speaker  21:08  
All right,

Unknown Speaker  21:20  
okay,

Unknown Speaker  21:23  
uses

Speaker 9  21:26  
Are you ready to answer that question? Yes? Please go right ahead.

Speaker 3  21:33  
I think in general, I don't really want to point out like one small moment, because it's like a bunch of, it's been a bunch of small moments where I felt

Unknown Speaker  21:44  
supported by my community

Unknown Speaker  21:47  
with like, job opportunities.

Speaker 3  21:52  
I miss Noreen. She gave me a whole bunch of shoes one time. I'm just like, I mean, we had like, food drives, and I could take food home, who knows, like little stuff like that, like seeing how unified the community is, it's just

Speaker 3  22:19  
and being a Part of it just make me feel like, if I really wanted something, like I can get it like the people in the community are liable in that way, there's people in our community with many different skill sets, and I've had a lot of opportunities to to learn from a lot of the people

Unknown Speaker  22:44  
that live in the community. But I mean,

Speaker 3  22:53  
so when I was working here at BP one summer, it was really, really hard for me.

Unknown Speaker  23:05  
I was

Speaker 3  23:08  
I had at the time, I was undiagnosed, so I didn't really understand, like, why I was having so much trouble with the way that things were operating, and I had Miss Carol that whole summer. She would always be outside with

Unknown Speaker  23:31  
she would always be outside with

Unknown Speaker  23:33  
tiani playing in the park

Unknown Speaker  23:37  
while EPP was going on.

Speaker 3  23:40  
And she would see how like stressed and like fatigued that would be. She would just tell that I was having a hard time. But she always sat me down look calm down.

Unknown Speaker  23:53  
She always kind of brought me back and

Speaker 3  24:00  
helped me hone in and refocus and stuff like that. And we would talk just about everything, yeah, if you don't miss careful,

Unknown Speaker  24:14  
rest in peace to her, that was my girl.

Speaker 3  24:22  
Yeah, I that's a couple ways I felt supported. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  24:36  
Sorry, literally,

Unknown Speaker  24:39  
all right, our next question,

Speaker 1  24:45  
are there moments in your day to day life that you worry about something about living in Boston, or that you felt unsupported while living here in Boston? And the second part to that question is. What kind of support do you wish you had for these worries?

Unknown Speaker  25:05  
So take a moment think about that,

Speaker 1  25:09  
and there's no longer right answer. And again, this is a safe space, because, you know, we dealt

Speaker 2  25:22  
with stuff, my social security number,

Unknown Speaker  25:34  
yes. Baxter, thank you. So I guess

Speaker 2  25:50  
you said feeling unsafe. What was unsupported? Unsupported? Do

Speaker 1  25:54  
you have, like, worried, like, do you have worries about being here in the city of Boston,

Speaker 2  25:59  
like, personally or like, a general sense, a general sense, if you want to

Speaker 1  26:03  
share a personal story, you can Yeah, um, and then what supports you this you had had, yeah, for those worries or whatever. I guess I'll

Speaker 2  26:09  
be general. It kind of relates to my job. Currently, I'm a housing advocate in Boston, so, uh, but obviously, you know, we've done stories here as well that's kind of come up with a lot of people, um, and, I mean, I'm genuinely worried for people not being able to afford to stay here, um, and spaces not being able to be utilized by the people that want the Most. Um, I don't know. I think eviction is violence. Unaffordability and poverty is violence. It causes so much physical, mental, emotional, spiritual, like harm and it I guess, in proxy, if you want to make it about myself, it kind of harms me. I mean, that's what my job revolves around, but also, like my ideology, revolves around supporting other people and making sure that community is like the most important thing, and that people are happy and stable. I take that very personally, for better for worse, and it, it's really, really upsetting to see people not be able to stay in their homes, not be able for food, having their families ripped apart, and in many different ways, it's, it's really upsetting. So, I mean, I don't know if there's any individual supports. I mean, obviously I think community and neighbors being there for each other. I think even just in small ways, you know, with bringing food or sitting down, having conversations and really being there, I think that's very impactful. And I think that's kind of what needs to be happening more, or maybe it's already, it's still happening. So I just kind of keep that up because there's a lot of structural damage I don't think is is possible to fix at this point. So I think just as an individual level, I think being more supported is just kind of continuing the like neighbor connections that happen in everyday life to kind of make everything feel a little bit more hopeful. Thank you.

Speaker 7  28:34  
So couple instances, but more specifically, in my school life, um, where, where I guess teachers would um, or should it be more recent, or could it be alright? So, yeah, so there was moments in time, because I was always known to be a student that like that, if I were to put my mind to it, um, or if I were to um, at least, like if I demonstrated interest in a way, um, I do really well in whatever I want, whatever it was required of me. But, um, there's a couple instances where the teachers that, like, during the parent teacher conferences would be like, Hey, he used to like, you know, do XYZ and we're gonna help him and all that. But then after, when it came time to when the real stuff did happen, and I was struggling and, like, there's a lot of things going on in my head space. Um, it was like they just, like, they just said those things in front of my parents, and when it came down to me, like they really didn't give good fuck. So it was like, it made it really difficult to, um, I.

Unknown Speaker  30:00  
To progress. But um, overall, though,

Speaker 7  30:05  
like, it's not only limited to teachers. It was like my family too. So it was just like they used to want me to do better, without changing anything about themselves. Changing the way that they support me, they just said, do better. And it was like, in mind, you these instances where they're telling me to do this, it was like, there's so much going on in front of me. Um, that is just like, How can I focus on because honestly, I felt like school was, like something that was, it's important. Education is important to me. School is important to me. But like, there's certain things where it's just like, if I, if I'm, if there's a more important issue in front of me, I'm not thinking about school, right? Like, school is just like, I'm not back burner. Yeah, I want to learn, but like, I got to get stuff out the way first, right? And it's just like, when there was that my mental health, because I'm like, at that time, my mental health is, like, at a very, very low point, it was to the point where I was just like, leaving classes, like, straight up in the middle, because just like, yo. Like, there's so much stuff in my head that's happening at home. And like, some people know this, and they're not doing anything, you know, to like, help. And so it's just like, it was hard, it was it was hard, it was a hard time. But then after a certain point, I did find my village of people, which is the positive, like, I feel like that's important, like people don't. People think that the family is strictly their village, when in reality, it's like what you create. So it's like some of my friends, some family members did help. I won't say all of them didn't, but it took a minute, but it happened, and then and some of my community members as well helped me. Oh, a lot so, but yeah, schooling, it was, it was very like that aspect. Didn't really feel supported. If I look, regardless what's happening, to tell me to do, do, do, do. So yeah,

Unknown Speaker  32:04  
thank you. Use this. Can you ask a question? Yes.

Speaker 1  32:11  
So think about a time when you had some worries and you didn't feel supported, and what would what type of supports you would have needed during that time? And I

Unknown Speaker  32:22  
can come back to

Speaker 4  32:27  
you, yeah, I think I'd like to pass this question. Nothing's coming to

Unknown Speaker  32:32  
mind at the moment

Speaker 5  32:36  
already. Well, I would say, like I wasn't supported, but like when my cousin was killed over there on boat in Geneva. I genuinely hate being in that area. Like, genuinely hate it, um, and at the time, like, I don't know what the stats are with, like, undiagnosed, like, just like mental illnesses within, like, black women in particular, but like, I didn't realize that I had a parent disorder until like, a year or two ago, because just the stuff that was going through. I was like, maybe it's just depression. But when I started talking to my primary care doctor, she was like, eating to like, she got me evaluated, and I was like, oh, that's like, actually not normal. That's not something that people just like people don't have panic attacks like a couple times a week. That's not normal. So, um, I would, I really wish that like that is more talked about, especially as it comes to like, just black people in general, but specifically like black women, because you always expect to be strong. I hate that stereotype of the strong black women. I am not that

Unknown Speaker  33:48  
things have gotten better.

Speaker 5  33:51  
I have been I am medicated for it, but it's like to even know that I was capable of developing something like that because of things that were going on in the community, was not something I could be aware of like that happening in such a like it, manifesting itself in that way, in something like a physical response. Um, but yeah, yeah. Thank you. Samuel,

Speaker 8  34:19  
um, I think mine is very similar to Earlene. I got into a really, really bad car accident a couple years ago, and because of it, I avoid going to American Legion, specifically near like the post and where that intersection is, just because that's where it happened. But during that period of time, like, the first couple of days after, when everyone, like, everyone was super supportive. But then, for some reason, after those first couple of days, I would get into a lot of arguments with, like, my mom and like my family, because they were, like, it's not like, like, yeah, you got into a car accident, but like, you're fine. Like, it would like, you should just be happy that you're fine. You. Like, it's not you're not dead, like, you could have been mature enough, so you should just be COVID, you're fine. And they weren't really understanding the fact that, like, Yes, I am fine, but I could have died. And I, like, I can't feel my leg, and I'm I lost my car, and I have, like, all of this is happening, but they were just like, you're like, you're alive, so you should be fine. So I went through a lot mentally, and then that's when I got my first therapist, and really started like taking care of myself mentally. And I also was able to get diagnosed for anxiety disorder during that during those sessions. So thank you.

Unknown Speaker  35:37  
I'm gonna shift the conversation a little bit. Is

Unknown Speaker  35:41  
that okay with the two of you over there

Speaker 1  35:44  
want to share you don't want to answer the last two the last question about not worries and Not feeling supported.

Unknown Speaker  35:53  
Yeah, okay.

Speaker 3  36:01  
I just say termite didn't feel supported. It was

Unknown Speaker  36:05  
more especially like with my family.

Unknown Speaker  36:12  
I had a

Speaker 3  36:15  
growing up I've, like, struggled with, like, my mental health and stuff I and

Unknown Speaker  36:26  
basically,

Speaker 3  36:28  
like, I started going down the path of, like, self harm. Usually I try to, like, keep it a secret, you know, but sometimes, like I would get caught and like I would get chewed out, basically for it, and

Unknown Speaker  36:56  
I just wish that

Unknown Speaker  37:00  
people understood

Unknown Speaker  37:04  
why, like, why people do that.

Unknown Speaker  37:12  
Thank you. Fiona, are you good? Did you want to answer that last question, so

Speaker 1  37:18  
we're gonna shift a little bit, a little bit of little heavy, but we'll wrap up really how close to both we're

Unknown Speaker  37:27  
gonna think about Community Safety

Speaker 1  37:30  
and community violence. So the first question

Speaker 6  37:42  
I I got more tabs open. There's like, 60 open. Oh, here,

Unknown Speaker  37:50  
and one browser, not the exact.

Speaker 1  38:01  
So the first question is, how safe do you think our community is, or the community that you live in? How safe do you think it for your community? Your community is, take the moment.

Unknown Speaker  38:13  
Think about it.

Speaker 1  38:16  
No wrong or right answer ever. Please

Unknown Speaker  38:23  
and we're gonna, we're gonna start with

Unknown Speaker  38:27  
Samuel. That's right.

Unknown Speaker  38:36  
I think, like, I

Speaker 8  38:43  
It's kind of safe, a little bit, maybe not. It's like 50% safe. I'll say that. It's just like there are safety precautions in place. But of course, as life goes on, things happen. I think in recent years, more things have happened in like, different avenues. Like, there's been like community violence, there's been like an uptick of like, vehicular safety precautions that have been put up. There's been like, drug stuff that's happened that's technically unsafe, that's been like the area, but because there's like precautions being put up to mitigate that, I would say it's like 50% safe. People are doing things about it, but that doesn't take away from the stuff that's still happening, okay? Earlene, um,

Speaker 5  39:50  
I give my street like a four out of 10. Oh, yeah, four out of 10. Um, come on. Block is like, um. Old people, but it's still like a lot of men, so I don't always feel safe walking by myself. Well, now I carry protection, but still that's like I don't even want to have to get to a point meet that, because I don't want to feel like I need to physically harm someone else so I can be protected, but at the same time, like, I haven't followed home. That's why I hate getting on public transportation. I will be in Uber Queen forever, because why would I do that special like, um, like, that's a party for another time. But as it comes to like, the black parts of Boston that I'm in, I feel like, around here, I feel safer. Not that the men are like, any better, but if you know, like, well, one, um, if anyone gave me a problem and they know you or they know Paul, they know that, like, somebody's gonna come talk to them about it, so I feel a little bit better. But um, and I know more people in this area than I do, like, even on my own street. But like, when I think about just like Dorchester in general, at least a black person Dorchester that I'm in the whole Dorchester music.

Speaker 5  41:20  
But yeah, as it comes to Dorchester, it's just like this, um, safer areas and others. Like I said, I hate being around boat in Geneva, um, but then I love being in fields corner, like they have the best food over there.

Speaker 9  41:53  
Thank you so much. Arlene Fiona, um,

Speaker 4  41:58  
I feel like it's kind of a double edged sword from my perspective, because while I do think that, yes, where I currently live now is safe, it's still not that safe, because there was, there were shootings in and are on the street and are in this neighborhood, but I've lived in worse neighborhoods. I have lived in places where my next door neighbor was like a pimp and a drug dealer. The houses used to get shot at. I've lived in houses with gun holes and gunshot holes in them. Even the house we lived on previously had a gunshot hole in it, used to see that all the time. And you know, it's always something in Dorchester. Because even when I lived in, like, a relatively suburban area in Dorchester, you know, there was still, like, there's always something, if it's not, um, excuse me, I'm a little sick. If it's not, like violence. You can see it's violence that's happening around the area. So when I lived on, um, in like, the suburban areas, it wasn't always, like gun violence and people getting beat up or whatever. It was a lot of like drug use. But then if I walk down the street and turn the corner, I would be in the hood, and then you'd hear about, like, the the violence, the stabbings, yada yada. So it's like something I've never really been able to escape.

Unknown Speaker  43:33  
It's just

Speaker 4  43:36  
seeing the different forms of violence over the places I've lived, it's kind of I don't know how to describe how it makes me feel, but I know that what I feel just isn't really good. I do feel a little more comfortable with where I live now, but I'm always going to have this instinct of not walking with my headphones in and being aware of my surroundings or like what street I'm on, or what streets to walk on, what streets to not walk on because of, like, how hot the block is.

Unknown Speaker  44:10  
And I'm like,

Speaker 4  44:13  
in the back of my mind, when I'm walking home from like, when I'm walking back home from the train station after work, I'm like, I get a little nervous, like, I don't know what's gonna happen. Because the streets that I walk on, there have been shootings. The street that I live on, people have gotten shot. Like, I, like, know that it's not I'm not gonna get shot, but I don't know that, because that stuff's unpredictable, and I'm kind of just like, I'm not super afraid for my life, but I'm a little nervous

Unknown Speaker  44:48  
respect for it,

Unknown Speaker  44:50  
because it's like,

Speaker 4  44:54  
when you grow up around gun violence, you kind of have to learn how to serve. Live and adapt and be aware of your surroundings. And it's just that fear also combined with like, being like, I'm a younger, smaller woman, I'm like, a very likely target to be harassed. There was one time I was on the train and, like, in Cambridge, and like, some guy was sitting, like a seat or two down for me, and he was, like, mimicking my body movements. So if I lean forward to get up, he would lean forward. If I lean back, he would lean back. And I was just like, I'm gonna get off at this stop and then walk somewhere else and then get on the next train, and I didn't know if he was following me, but I got scared, so I just went into a local cafe, and I don't know if he was tailing after me or not. I didn't look back, because at that point I'm just like, Alright, I have to just like, go work. Um,

Unknown Speaker  45:59  
it's just like,

Unknown Speaker  46:02  
Man, I don't know, like,

Unknown Speaker  46:05  
it's safe, but not

Unknown Speaker  46:09  
lot of conflicted, complicated emotions, for sure. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  46:17  
Excuse me. Eustace,

Unknown Speaker  46:22  
comedian, community safe?

Unknown Speaker  46:24  
No, okay?

Speaker 3  46:28  
Relatively No, comparatively No,

Unknown Speaker  46:37  
yeah, I got citizens on my phone, bro, I know

Speaker 3  46:41  
everything that happens within a one mile radius. Women assaulted, man being assaulted by hammer, 13 people jump, one person, people getting hit by cars and shootings, shot spotters, gunning off and all type of shit. I'm

Unknown Speaker  47:03  
like, Yeah, I ain't going outside today.

Speaker 3  47:06  
You got criminals out here with hammers beating, no part of that. Yeah, don't think my community is safe. I think we try. I

Unknown Speaker  47:18  
think people try. But

Speaker 3  47:23  
you know, shit should be happening. Sometimes you can't always control your own safety, and that's like, really the reality. Everybody got their head on the swim. Everybody's paying attention to this around

Unknown Speaker  47:39  
because they know

Speaker 3  47:42  
they're not safe, if you would have to do that.

Speaker 7  47:57  
No, it really isn't especially because, based off of my experiences, like me walking around a lot, me like always, constantly being around places, because I bridge, build, I network. That's my type of work. I do plenty of times where I've been stopped by people because they thought I was some one of the people that they were beefing with, or whatever. Um, as a black man especially, it's just like and woman locks and stuff. It's just like you, you get profiled really quickly, either by the cops or by by like, your own and um, and they really be feeling like, I got a guardian angel walking because some because I'd be walking down on this strip, Norfolk strip, sometimes it's just like, Yo, like, is today gonna be like, last week? Is it gonna happen again? Or am I gonna like, you know, it's gonna be chill. Not saying that happens all the time, but the time that it did happen, it was just like, yo. Like, if this was any other situation, I won't be here for um, or something might have happened where I would have, like, who knows, um, and on top of that, citizen, like, we see it all the time, right? Um, people have followed me before because they thought I was somebody I wasn't. People have, um, ran down the street or across the street thinking I was somebody I wasn't. I was just like, it makes you want to feel, it makes you feel like you had to, like, change your appearance, almost, right? Like, because it's like, just because I lost, um, so I'm sort of somewhat tall and like, I have a certain style to me. Um, that yo, like, I gotta be this person that you've been itching for further for a couple months. Like, my up, um, because, like, Yo, you can't even have you have to base your lifestyle around your surroundings. You can't even base your lifestyle around you. I. Like, what you truly believe in, what you want to do sometimes, as they put on like a on the side, and you got to take your environment to the account, especially in your environment, on a multiple basis, regardless how much you think they know you like there's too many different people around here that don't and they'll do anything to get off, whatever they feel like they need to get off. So, um, and this is a bunch of different cases, not even just me, like, like, my friends too, like they've gone through some crazy, crazy shit where, like, they had to, they had to defend themselves, had to call me, keep them, keep me on FaceTime with them, because they feel like someone was following them. Had me have to, like, meet them at some time so they can be in a bigger group, because, like, they were scared for themselves, like, whether it was my female friends or whether it's my male friends, like the fact that, like, you can't even, you can't even say, Oh, it's just like only women have to go out in the pack, in a group of people. Like, like, men need to do that too. And since it's kind of like, Yo, like, the way that we're moving, like, like, like, um, I used to said, um, there's a bunch of like, there's like, we're trying to be safe, right? There's people that are actively trying, but like, you know, life is gonna do what it's got to do, you know, like, regardless of how you feel, regardless if you feel like you're going to be the next one in your family to make it like there's going to be something on your block that's going to be, like, a determinant factor. So, yeah, no, so, TLDR, no, not really.

Unknown Speaker  51:49  
Thank you. I'm not Huckleberry facts, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  51:58  
So, Jesus Christ, um, I'm

Speaker 2  52:02  
just thinking about, just in my case, management job, and because, again, it's based in my in my community in East Boston. So, you know, it's people that you don't, I don't just interact with on a work basis, but they're maybe my neighbor, right? And they're someone I see the grocery store every week. There's someone that maybe I see in the corner store, I see in the park, you know, we talk stuff like that, so I do kind of consider it still community violence in my community, right? So people are I take people's trust very seriously, especially with that job, because they do give me and my colleagues some really horrifying information and some really personal information that maybe they don't want to even admit to themselves sometimes. So there's been a lot of cases we've been dealing with at the same time about domestic violence and people not wanting to seek help for many different reasons, because they've been violated by health professionals that have told their abusers of those details. There's been multiple cases like that. There's been DCF getting involved in households for child neglect and child abuse.

Unknown Speaker  53:24  
There's been

Unknown Speaker  53:27  
someone's building got hit by a car

Speaker 2  53:31  
and they got a BHA voucher out of it. But, you know, they almost lost it. She didn't know what's going on. It doesn't language barriers, the whole thing, but her building got hit by a fucking car, and her landlord still wanted the rent from her. And my friend got hit by a car like they were, they were crossing the street, and they got hit by a car. Two people actually, like, cars aren't just like some like autonomous being like, there are people in there driving those cars, and it's, it's almost like people just don't care. I mean, I can go off on cars. I have opinions, but surprisingly, but I do. I do okay, but, um, I mean, me personally too, like in East Boston, like I feel generally safe.

Unknown Speaker  54:24  
I try not to think about it. But,

Speaker 2  54:30  
oh, kind of recently too, maybe a couple days ago, actually, there's been construction on a street. There's they've been redoing the sidewalks for accessibility or something. And there's this one guy that kept on like, I think I said good morning to him or something, because he was looking at my dog. And that happens a lot, and he kept on following me around for the past, like couple days. And he would, kind of like, I would, you know, I'd go to a certain section of the park or different street, and he'd kind of be like, stalking behind me. And one day he did see me get out of. My apartment, so he knows where I live and my name's in the mailbox. So I was kind of thinking about that. He went up and approached and he talked to me with my neighbor there too, an older man that, you know, gives my dog treats. Is super sweet. But this guy came up and started talking with me and got my dog and just kind of stand there for way too long, even when I was clearly ignoring him. So even though I'm like, gay and trans, like, I kind of forget that people see me as not those things. Because I'm always like, Oh, I'm like, really, like, unapproachable. Like, Why would some man be interested in me? Like, I don't care about them. I don't factor them in my life, but they clearly factor me in their life sometimes. So I kind of forget that sometimes, but

Unknown Speaker  55:44  
I mean, just like a lot of

Speaker 2  55:47  
a lot of different factors go into community safety and community violence, so me, personally, I've been, I guess, privileged enough not to experience as much violence as others have, especially this table, or just in general, in the community. But obviously, you know, there's you just hear about in the community, in whatever capacity, maybe your neighbor tells you a story about a domestic violence that they experienced, or, you know, hear someone else at this table talk about their experiences. And it does impact me a lot and impacts them a lot. Just horrible, just horrible all around.

Unknown Speaker  56:27  
Thank you. Baxter, I know

Speaker 1  56:30  
that's but that was a heavy question. So now I have another question, what heavy I don't I don't know, okay, what approaches have worked around community safety and violence.

Unknown Speaker  56:45  
What approaches have worked good?

Speaker 10  57:00  
A couple seconds take a couple seconds

Unknown Speaker  57:07  
better on this one, Yep,

Speaker 1  57:09  
definitely think about it. And if there aren't, please say so. If there are, please say so. You just

Unknown Speaker  57:21  
need a couple seconds. Um, nothing, nothing

Speaker 1  57:25  
to mitigate community safety

Unknown Speaker  57:29  
or increase safety and minimize violence.

Unknown Speaker  57:34  
No, I can't really think of anything like

Unknown Speaker  57:38  
use this heads.

Speaker 8  57:42  
Use this. Had, like, mentioned the citizens app, and I had completely forgot about it. But just like, the amount of times per day that the citizens app will go off, and it's always like, 0.6 miles away, 0.9 miles away, 1.1 that's a look. And it's like, common square little out. I'm like, damn. Like, it's on the two o'clock y'all shooting at two o'clock Tuesday night,

Unknown Speaker  58:12  
time. I just like,

Speaker 8  58:15  
and I can only compare it to like what I've seen, and I haven't like seen other cities. So I don't know, I can't really compare like over policing to other cities, because I haven't seen a person. Haven't seen it personally. But like, cops still ride around all the time, just just like, stuff happens all the time, and the only thing that I've seen like happening is like six speed bumps on one street, which

Unknown Speaker  58:35  
the slow street.

Speaker 8  58:40  
But that's really like, the only like safety initiative that I've seen, like, for real, for rural is speed bumps, and everybody hates them, so and then, you know, of course, the the middle of the street bustling on blue a lot that everybody hates too, but that's something for another day.

Speaker 1  59:01  
Thank you, Arlene, what approaches have you seen to minimize violence, to increase safety and minimize violence for work? Um,

Speaker 5  59:15  
nonprofits that actually like do shit, not just kind of like sit there and take up space, because I've worked at other nonprofits, and by far, BP has been the most effective because they're actually involved in their community. And my other job, which I think the work that they do is extraordinary, because they help from what was that term, not incarcerated, returning, returning citizens. They help return to citizens, people who are formerly involved in the street to get, like, their education and stuff, but they don't know any of their neighbors. They don't know the like they're on a block with a hair salon, barber shop, and like a coincidence, they don't like they don't take their time to get to know people that live over there, because most of the staff. Don't live either in Boston or in that area of Boston, so they kind of see it as like, oh, like, these peoples like, not as like, this is my community. So trying to be a savior, yes, trying to be a savior, especially when admin is mostly white and the people they serve are not at all. So it's it, even if their intentions aren't there, it's like, you that's just the impact, unfortunately, um, or just Yeah, and then, like, if the city, like, they offer such great lip service, and it's like, oh, like, this is such great work you're doing, but where's our money? Like, Y'all cut our funding in half last summer. Like, where's our money? If you think this is such good work, where's the money going the Boston Police, and my uncle was a former commissioner, and I remember that Thanksgiving was so funny. Um, I remember sitting there, I was like, I don't really do shit. Like, y'all don't do anything. Actually, you make it worse. So, like, Y'all have all this money and yet have you haven't solved any problems, you haven't done any violence prevention work. Why is someone who is not, like, trained to be in law enforcement better at violence prevention than y'all that's like, that's really, like, that's really T, no, it is t. Like, Y'all need to get it together, period. Thank you. Earlene

Unknown Speaker  1:01:23  
Fiona, um,

Speaker 4  1:01:27  
so far, it's like nothing, from what I've seen, has been helping like, just to briefly touch on what um Earlene said, it kind of is community organizations that are in the community, and like being proactive within the community and taking the time to get to know the people who live here,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:49  
because

Speaker 4  1:01:52  
it's just like when you know people that are affiliated with a certain organization, You kind of treat them based on that. And that's kind of just how it is. And like, the hood and the area be like, Oh, they're from over there, but they're cool, though. Or like, oh, that's, that's miss so and so. We don't mess with her. We're like, oh, that boy over there lives on that street. This is the lowdown on this guy. It's always like, I always felt like it's the community that needs to rely on the community first. So I don't really think that it's just like the people that are in power supposed to do that are supposed to do, like violence prevention work and like the things that they're supposed to, like the shit they get paid to do, they just don't do it. I don't know what they do, to be quite honest, nothing.

Unknown Speaker  1:02:45  
But I also think that,

Unknown Speaker  1:02:48  
like in order to bridge the gap,

Speaker 4  1:02:52  
in order to bridge the gap between, like law enforcement and community, there needs to be some midway point. There needs to be some meeting point, which is why I think they should bring back the gun buyback program, because that way, it's beneficial for both parties. You're taking one more gun off the streets, potentially somebody else isn't dying. Cops, the law enforcement, they're getting one less gun off the street. They get to know the community that they're supposed to be serving. It's just like a lot of involvement is what like, a lot of community involvement is kind of like what helps mitigate violence, but it's still happening, and it just feels like the government doesn't care. Because anytime that I go away from Dorchester and tell people, oh, I'm from Boston, what part Dorchester, the first thing out of their mouth is like, Oh, everybody gets shot there, like some really, like shitty joke. And I'm like, Dude, that's somebody's life, exactly. And it's just like, it makes me really sad, because nobody really gets to see Dorchester in the light that I do. Because I love my hood. I do. I love the hood because in a suburban area, you can't walk up the street and be right in front of a grocery store, post office, a check cashing place, a pharmacy, a liquor store, the dispensary, like everything you could ever need, is like a five minute walk, and

Speaker 2  1:04:21  
that creates community too, and that you meet people here, because,

Speaker 4  1:04:33  
literally, the other day, me and a couple friends who are on our way up to the grocery store, we bump into A neighbor, and she joins us on our walk. You see, there's just like, you don't get that in neighborhoods that aren't the hood, because that is so much vibrancy and character, but it's overshadowed by a lot of the violence that is neglected by leadership and law enforcement. So it comes. Upon the community, but community and law enforcement have to meet in the middle at some point, which is why they should bring them the gun buyback program. Again, that is something that could really help, because you get comp like as a community member contributing to the person giving community giving back a gun, they get something in return, which is usually like, money. Everybody needs money. Everybody needs a $25 gift card Stop and Shop like, and that's, and like, it's, you know, it's just like a lot of times I'm speaking to like older people in the neighborhood, like, oh, it's not like what it used to be. We used to be on the porches. I'm like, Yeah, we should bring that back. But it's not even safe to be on the porch.

Speaker 2  1:05:55  
In East Boston and the public housing complex that we work at, it's illegal to be on your porch. What against your lease? It's, it's, you can get kicked out. It's a violation. Oh, it's not, it's not allowed. You can't do

Unknown Speaker  1:06:19  
it. What can't do it.

Speaker 2  1:06:23  
That's for me. It is breaking community that way, people fucking, that's how you what, like, that's like, build what people do, let the lady that's loitering, that's like, you read that shit, like,

Speaker 4  1:06:38  
it's so crazy. It's just like, there's no community building anymore, like we don't get like, in my neighborhood, at least, it's scary to sit on the porch. And Baxter's neighborhood, you can't sit on the porch. It's just like you and it's just like, I just don't think that I'm getting off topic here, but it's just like, yeah, there's really not much happening, and not much that I'd like to see happening.

Unknown Speaker  1:07:04  
Thank you. Eustace,

Speaker 1  1:07:09  
what's not work? What approaches have you seen work to increase safety and minimize violence?

Unknown Speaker  1:07:18  
I'll say, mm, a

Unknown Speaker  1:07:22  
mentorship.

Speaker 3  1:07:27  
It can be like from an organization like VP, or it could just be like people in the community that you can look up to, people that care about you, that love you, that want the best for you, that they're not gonna let you run around here doing stupid shit. You feel me? They're not gonna let nobody just mess with you. They're gonna keep you on track make sure you're doing the right thing. Are

Speaker 6  1:07:55  
you talking about accountability? Yeah, go ahead. I um,

Unknown Speaker  1:08:03  
because I think

Speaker 3  1:08:06  
a lot of the violence happens with like younger people, not so much like older people, not saying it doesn't happen. But I mean, as far as I see, it's usually people younger than me. I'm 2022

Unknown Speaker  1:08:25  
younger than me, or like I

Unknown Speaker  1:08:43  
I think that, I think that, like

Unknown Speaker  1:08:48  
having

Unknown Speaker  1:08:50  
guidance

Unknown Speaker  1:08:54  
helps people

Speaker 3  1:08:57  
make less violent decisions. You go have somebody you could go to, somebody that you trust, that's like an older person, like, Yo, that dog. I don't know, I don't know what to do, I don't know what I want to do. And they like, Yo, bro. Come sit down. Talk about it. You feel me, but you calm down now reassess the situation, and then it's like, damn, I really could have went and did whatever I was gonna do,

Unknown Speaker  1:09:33  
but I didn't.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:37  
There's people like,

Speaker 3  1:09:40  
like, kind of how everybody was saying, like, there's not enough community anymore. You can't sit on the porch. I was just sitting on the porch yesterday, and, um, looking like this, head on the swivel, looking for anybody who's walking, who's looking up the wrong way, who's wearing the wrong type of you. Feel me looking such spinning, like walking around too much like I don't just paranoid because you just You're not safe. If you're outside, like you step out the house, it's not safe. I haven't they not doing I don't know what they doing. I don't see nothing happening. That's that's reducing any violence, unless the speed bumps. That's the only thing I'm knowing that's really making slow down on the on the dangerous people

Unknown Speaker  1:10:35  
still getting in the car accident. So

Unknown Speaker  1:10:39  
what are they really doing? Like people don't care.

Speaker 3  1:10:43  
People don't care today sometimes, but yeah, I haven't other than, like, a solid community where it's not just old community and we gather and just do things together, like we know, like, where it's like tribal, familial, like we're giving to each other and we're receiving from each other, we're pouring into each other, and we're all helping to build something together that's going to positively affect all of us. Like that part, like with the older heads grew up with, we we don't have that no more, like we don't get to experience that, you know always talk about, that you hop on a train downtown and y'all be like 16 well, right after school, we go hop on A train downtown. We go play at the arcade. You ain't doing that. You might run into the wrong person trying to hop on a public transportation train downtown. Like, it shouldn't happen downtown too. You get whipped out out there. I'm not playing. We

Unknown Speaker  1:11:56  
can't, like, it's not the shame. We don't,

Unknown Speaker  1:11:59  
we don't have that. We don't get to experience that.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:04  
So, yeah, I think that.

Speaker 3  1:12:08  
I think that a solid, genuine, trusting community is the best thing, the best thing to combat community violence. If we're all together, we all bonded. We really don't have no reason to be beefing. You feel me? We all comfortable with each other, you know.

Unknown Speaker  1:12:37  
Thank you. Thank you. Eustace, Uncle Berry, what's up? Need some

Unknown Speaker  1:12:44  
time. No, no, no, like his name is,

Speaker 1  1:12:51  
I do want to say we're almost at one o'clock. Yeah, so on, everybody's time so, yeah, so, oh,

Speaker 7  1:13:02  
so. Um, so it's like, if my thing is my I have a couple things I want to the problem. One, no, I don't believe that a lot of the things that we're trying to do is working. Um, well, as far as the Boston police, the police, they don't really do their thing as much as that you expect them to with the amount of involvement that they claim to do. Um, you're not really seeing that being reflected at all.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:32  
And like

Speaker 7  1:13:35  
a lot of our community, or a lot of the things like that, we do make change of are really superficial things, like things that don't really matter, things that like causes that don't really need, not saying that causes like, causes don't need attention, but like specific, like the specific things that, oh, we just did this for, for some irrelevant shit, right? Congratulate a life thing, right? And like, Yo, we didn't ask for that, right? Like we're asking for Yo, can you be more? Can you facilitate these neighborhoods? Can you like do something that brings us more together? Because a lot of the time we're thinking we're making impacts, but it's because of social media. We think that we're making impacts because we're getting enough likes on social media, right? All them people are literally, I can tell you, I can tell you, like, out of 1000 people, like, I'll tell you at least, like, 100 out of those 1000 people are genuinely, like, actually looking into whatever is being impacted. Otherwise they're just liking and scrolling, liking and scrolling, oh, this is cool. Liking and scrolling. Like, there's no like, like, like, um, used to said earlier, like, we can't do, like, a lot of the stuff that we're trying to do. Um, no, no more. So that was what I was gonna say. He was saying, like, hold on. Like, as far as like. Like the community, the younger generation, like, we don't got, we don't have guidance, like the leadership roles and leadership aspects of our community. If anything, they're like, people looking up to these online influencers that don't even have anything of substance, and they're like, they're like, invading our culture and ruining it, um, in the worst way possible, like we got white people using AAV in the worst ways. We got like, a fun we like, we like, and what and that impact how that influences like, our youth in general, is that it removes like, it kind of like removes our identity. Like it kind of like, makes them feel like they like they don't like they're not belonging, but more so like they're they're entitled. Something like that. I can't get my finger on it, but I knew what I was trying to say, though. But bottom line, um, there's a quote that stands out to me, especially after what you used to said when it comes down to violence in our community and actually impacting it. Um, it's like two men go to war on opposite sides, and like, they're told that they're supposed to kill each other, but the whole time, if they were to me at any other given moment, they probably would have been friends, right? And it's like one of those things where, like, we need to, like, like, I don't know what it is, because it's like, there's so much nuance when it comes down to, like, violence, like, there's a lot of blood, blood beef like, oh, he killed my brother, oh, like, he did this to my father. Or, like, a lot of a lot of personal beefs happening. That I can understand why it's hard to try and shift someone's mentality when it comes down to because, just like, you're telling me to forgive this, that that just like, that just took my person away from me, like, like, in like, then they're gonna feel like, Yo, you don't get it and walk away. Like, whole time, like, like, there's old heads that have lost everybody, and they're still trying to, like, do something about it. But the idea, like I said earlier, like these media influencers perpetuate this idea that, Yo, you gotta get back. Did you get back? You should look back, especially after, like, our if the old heads had more, like, like, more involvement in social media and like saying, yo, this ain't it? Or like, having bringing, like, bringing some type of space to be like, noble, we're gonna have a we're gonna have we're gonna be in a community center, right? Everyone's gonna get like, you're gonna come in, everyone's gonna get searched, and you gotta sit down and have these talks, right? Like, like, because at the end of the day, like, that's the only way. Like, it's risk, but you like, I think it's risk better than what more we're already going through. Right conversations is what allow people to grow and allow the community grow, communities to grow. Like, if we, if we keep trying to say, Oh, we're just going to impact it by not talking to them all the way, we're just gonna, like, do things that we think we need, right? Um, we do have community conversations and stuff like that community meetings. But like, the things that come out of it, like the thing, the actual things that are being done after those community meetings is like, like, what? Like,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:19  
it's a lot of talks,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:20  
follow up action. There's

Speaker 7  1:18:23  
a lot of follow ups, a lot of wants, a lot of wants, a lot of needs. And like when, when it comes down to it, it's always a work in progress, right? And there are immediate solutions that people don't want to take because they're afraid. And like the fact that you're afraid to make neighborhoods have conversations. Should tell you everything you need to know, right? I feel like a lot of our police department is detached from the violence that happens because they go home somewhere, out in bumfuck where they don't have to deal with it. No, literally, they don't. They don't live here or whatever. Like, they're just like, Yo, we are in here. We see the violence. Like, my thing is, though, right? Like, they like a lot of the time. I mean, personally, especially from what I observed, is just like they want to try and be a bystander to something that's like, you can't be a bystander, law enforcement, like you, like you're a law enforcement like you're not only meant to arrest us, like you're meant to guide your guidance, right? You you have a gun, yeah, you have a handcuffs, yeah? But majority of time you can use your words like a lot of the time you could make that conversation happen. You can be like, hey, because there's a they, if anything, they cleaned that picture themselves. Oh yeah. They want that. They wanted to be seen as yo. We are the big dad, like you. You better not be doing something wrong. Be growing up as a like when you're growing up black, right, like you better not be doing. Not wrong, or if I'm whooping you, except now, when you're older, now that's really there's just now a bunch of that, like, just in the law enforcement, they're like, Oh, if you're doing something bad, we're gonna whoop you whole time if you ask the question, like, Yo, what's going on? Etc. We have so much resources out here, right? I know we do have resources. It's just that people aren't informed about it, and then when the time for them to be informed about it, they already did. They already ruined their life. And so it's just like, Hey, yo, like an officer walks down the street, like, I know officer officers at the post, right? I'm gonna just say that scenario, right? And say, like, I'm heated, I'm tight. Like, what? Like, I used to set and like, I don't know what to do. Like, I'm pissed, right? Nine times out of 10, right? If someone's walking down pissed, right? Just being like, Yo, I don't know what I'm gonna do. I'm full and whatever, right? I can tell you, like, eight or seven out of 10 times that police officer is gonna look at you, profile you, and try to ask you questions, to help you, yep, like you're not a threat to them or a threat to the community. Whole time, it's just like you have the potential to be because you're mad. Of course, anybody has the potential to be, everyone has the potential to be a threat or a help to the community. It's just like, Yo, in specific crucial moments, that's what's going to change the perspective, like, oh, we can rely on them, right? Instead of like, profiling. He can be like, Hey, yo, bud. What's going on, right? I'm not here to do anything. Probably takes off his belt, throws it away. Be like, Yo, like, yo. I'm here to talk to you, because you seem like you got a lot going on, small things like that that I know a lot of our enforcement nowadays don't want to do because they're deescalate. They don't want to de escalate. They just, they just want to. The only way they know how to de escalate is putting the cuffs or putting

Speaker 2  1:21:49  
you down. They want to do the interrogation, the fun part for them. So

Unknown Speaker  1:21:53  
it's just like

Speaker 7  1:21:55  
the tribunal, like the unity that we need like as like, as a community. It's like, first of all, we can't, we can't just, like, expect social. Social media is a way of, like, a big ass air horn. That's it. That's a way to get people to know otherwise. Like, I don't want, like, a lot of people be thinking that, that they're making change just by making posts. That's not, that's not the case. That's not at all the cases. So that's all I'm gonna say. I have a lot to say about this, but I don't want to run with the time. That

Unknown Speaker  1:22:27  
was great. Thank you. Back

Unknown Speaker  1:22:30  
to wrap up after that,

Speaker 2  1:22:34  
I heard this one person on Tik Tok is so funny. We're like, How can you call yourself a community organizer if you weren't on speaking terms with your roommate, which I think is hilarious and also very, very true. So kind of going back to what

Unknown Speaker  1:22:50  
Earlene was saying,

Speaker 2  1:22:55  
took me a second I got there. Yeah. I mean, like, about the like, the non, because I can kind of talk about more in a systematic sense, because that's kind of how I always think, is through systems, not just for my current job, but just like myself. In my experience in East Boston, all these organizations talk a big game. They're like, you know, we're here. We're doing this the community. We're here to stop, to prevent violence. We're here to address violence that people are doing to themselves or doing to others. There is this model called the hub model, or whatever it's from Canada, but came down here whole thing, but I was part of those meetings at one of my jobs, and you could only bring a case if that person was a harm to self or others. And there's very strict qualifications to me. So it was also, by the way, run by the police department at that point. So that kind of gives you an idea about how the perspectives were. So I was really hesitant to share detailed information on people that have may use illicit drugs, that may be sleeping in an encampment. Um, because that is also illegal in this city, um, and probably this whole country for the most part. But yeah, so already, you know you can't address someone where they are because you're scared to share just plain information with someone that's supposed to be helpful, right? Um. And you know, even if you did share this case with someone like I did, many times, they would be like, Oh, this doesn't qualify for the hub. Or they'd be like, oh, sorry to hear that. Have you tried this? Yeah. Oh, well, you know there's no there's nowhere else to go. Um, so all these systems are just repeatedly failing, failing, failing. There was this one woman who was effectively going to be homeless, you know, the first of whatever month that was, couple months ago, with her and her disabled child who needed around the clock care. The mother was undocumented, or maybe had, like partial documentation, maybe like a work permit. But she wasn't able to work because she had to keep her she take care of her child for 24 hours a day, seven days a week. They lived on a third story walk up, and the child was in a stroller. And she's 12, so she's getting pretty big, so she couldn't, you know, it was like the most horrifying thing I've ever seen my life. So she we call many, many times to the state of Massachusetts to get them placed in an emergency family shelter. But those are at capacity. It's been bad. Um, I could talk about that more, but those are at weight capacity. The most dystopic phrase I've ever heard is a emergency shelter wait list. Which What the fuck? So they said that she she didn't qualify because she wasn't technically homeless, she wasn't out on the street homeless. Yet, just because she had a date doesn't mean she's homeless, and she can only get on the wait list. It when she was out in the street with her child, and who knows how long that would take. So where you would stay? Because it's also illegal to sleep on the street. So

Speaker 7  1:26:08  
a wait list for homelessness seems very unethical, illegal to me. It's illegal to be homeless,

Speaker 1  1:26:17  
and a wait list for a homeless shelter, Emergency, emergency,

Speaker 2  1:26:20  
yeah, an entire State of Massachusetts do. It's not just a Boston, no, I know, yeah, you know that. So she ended up getting placed in a shelter eventually, because we had some like individual lawyer with a little bit more power than us pull some strings or some bullshit, I don't know. And she says she's not doing well in there, I don't know, but

Unknown Speaker  1:26:45  
systems are failing all the time.

Speaker 2  1:26:51  
At Logan Airport, we had maybe 300 people, you know, maybe 50 to 300 300 people, depending on the month, from February to July. They were migrants, majority from Haiti, who were sleeping in the airport terminal, terminal e this is yeah, so they didn't recently, so they were being Ubered to a day shelter in like Everett or something, or Quincy, probably both, and then they would be route back, and their last meal official would be at 2pm so they didn't have dinner. And you know, everyone you can imagine, majority families, majority young families with young children, young parents. I talked to some of them in my horrible Spanish at my job and helped them fill out applications for waiting lists for housing. But, okay, that's waiting lists, and they were eventually kicked at the airport. But basically my organization, not even organization, at that point was just individuals. We fed them for months, dinner with rescued food from Amtrak. Actually, Amtrak would be like, we can't sell this is a day old. Do you want it? And we would just like, heat it up. It would mostly be the youth at work at my organization, but it would still be individuals, not like, it was sanctioned by like it was sanctioned by our organization, but we just happen to have the space and manpower, so they would heat them up in the oven, package them up. I did the same thing too. I was there doing that with them. Then it would be delivered by individuals in their cars and handed out. And we would have to sit there, so then people wouldn't rush to it and whatever. So, um, and then they were eventually moved to a very, very small East Boston church I used to work at, not the church itself, but the church building. I used to work at the soup kitchen in the basement there. So ever there were about 60 families that's left there, it's not a good church. The windows were broken. It's actually, really not a good church. But we're structure. I'm saying all of this because these systems and the all these different instances are failing, failing horribly, state systems, private philanthropy systems, all of that. Everyone talks a big talk, and then it is everything, okay, okay, I know, but I don't know what works. I really don't I think it's just like the individuals that like hold on for dear life to help someone else in their community. Yeah, what's I don't know. I don't know if I can, I think what Samuel said before they're gone, but he's gone, but, uh. Is nothing. Basically, I don't think anything's happening. It's kind of horrifying.

