Unknown Speaker  0:02  
Thank you, Victoria,

Speaker 1  0:09  
what approaches have worked around community violence?

Unknown Speaker  0:14  
If you know of any, you

Speaker 2  0:26  
Um, okay, thank you. That's okay. Looks really real. Approach that I can think that actually works is one about their kids, and that's all ages, whether the child's a grade school, whatever, when a parent cares about their child, they're not going to want to see them on the streets. They're going to want them to be someone relatively safe,

Unknown Speaker  0:58  
even still, if the parent I

Speaker 2  1:03  
like, if the parent cared enough, they would always know where their child is, or, like, have some idea, and then try and get them involved in things. Because there are a lot of parents who act like it's the school's job to raise their children, and it's not. That's the whole point of being a parent. Extracurriculars, I have seen extracurriculars work, but they only work the best if the adult, or whoever running the program is strict and firm, because the moment that that a youth gets comfortable. It's done because then what happens is, once they're comfortable, like talking however they want to talk to this adult, they end up steam rolling over this adult. And it's just like, why are you letting this 13 year old tell you, tell you off in this manner, you're the adult. So a lot of adults don't take charge of the spaces that they're running. There's a lack of mentorship, and even with the adults and mentors, these adults need to be like a little more old school in the sense that they need to be firm instead of boundaries. Like it's cool that you want to talk to me, genuine, friendly, but the moment you step out of line, that's where the issue is. Like, you have to, like, set up these boundaries that need to be constantly reinforced. And there's like, a mutual respect that has to be built, because once you set up that guideline, or like that, NGO, this is my space how to play around. It tends to people tend to naturally just fall in line, and those who don't don't. But even still, like you're firm enough, they might come back around, whether they want to or not. It's just, I really think that being firm, but also kindness, and being kind of plays a huge part, because a lot of these, a lot of these people are not just you, because there are adults who are the same way. Have a lot of these people have never truly known, like, real, genuine kindness. A lot of the people that I know who like, have someone do something nice or kind for them, they're always like, Okay, what do I do back? Like you don't always have to do something back, and I'm sorry that you have to feel like that you owe me or someone else or neighbor. I'm just doing this because I care. It's like care is a huge part of like, community. It's just like nobody really cares anymore. Thank

Speaker 1  3:39  
you. Last question to lighter question, in 10 years, how do you imagine Boston would look like for you? What would Boston look like for you in 10 years, if I was in charge, however you want to phrase it, in 10 years. In 10 years from now, what would Boston look like for you? How would you like it to look for you?

Unknown Speaker  4:06  
Good times.

Unknown Speaker  4:09  
We're bringing Mayor Menino back from the day, putting

Speaker 3  4:16  
a bustling on global Avenue. Girl that's not that's not fire, that's

Unknown Speaker  4:21  
just I'll say this

Speaker 4  4:24  
10 years, what I would like Boston to look like is more educated and more peaceful. I don't think a state that has 50.9% of college graduates should have a level of violence. I don't know. When we talk about Boston, like, I know we talk about Boston, I don't know if you guys go to Fall River, go to New Bedford, if you guys, if you guys, are going to Worcester, you know I'm saying like, violence, violence, unfortunately, is not just in Boston. It trickles out here. Motherfuckers want to be from Boston so bad. They want to act so cancer. They want to be too tough, so bad. It's just like, Yo, be who you are in next 10 years. I just want Boston to be the educated state that is, I want people to really understand that, Yo, you are in a position which you have some of the best schools in the state, in the nation. You are, you literally like are Western 30 minutes from the best hospitals in the fucking world. There's a level of intelligence. There's a level of word I'm looking for, pedigree that Boston comes with. There's a level of winning that Boston comes with. So I want us to be winners in the in the right way, in the next 10 years.

Unknown Speaker  5:55  
Thank you. I

Unknown Speaker  5:57  
want rent control. I want rent control.

Speaker 1  6:04  
No. Rent control is different. I want there to be like,

Speaker 5  6:07  
I want there to be a program for people who were born in Boston they can afford to actually live here in own homes, not just like, you know, I'm going to

Unknown Speaker  6:20  
Rhode Island because, you know, 18 for one.

Speaker 5  6:27  
So I want okay in for them. Thank you,

Speaker 1  6:36  
golini, what did it look like for you? What will Boston look like for you in 10 years? What do you want it to look like for you in 10 years?

Speaker 3  6:44  
Like my brother, you said peaceful,

Unknown Speaker  6:49  
besides just peaceful, I want to see there'd be like

Speaker 3  6:54  
more, not necessarily only opportunities, but more like group spaces, like whether that be like community held or like for the youth, I want to see more of that, because from that, it will help better everyone in that way, from the kids to the adults and the education part of

Unknown Speaker  7:18  
domino effect.

Unknown Speaker  7:20  
Thank you, Roger,

Speaker 6  7:25  
Boston, in 10 years for me, your post apocalyptic wasteling, oh my gosh, turn off the TV.

Unknown Speaker  7:41  
You'll be far away from me.

Unknown Speaker  7:44  
I wouldn't like to say here,

Speaker 6  7:46  
you know, as much as you could imagine something being so great you're like all the way down here, when it comes to the power that you honestly, really have that's all the way up here. It's going to take everyone to make a change, and honestly, everyone's not going to really put a foot forward and do that. Okay, ranks gonna still be high. It's mostly it's a great place,

Unknown Speaker  8:20  
like historically, it's not that great. But

Unknown Speaker  8:36  
this is, this is what we got.

Unknown Speaker  8:40  
Thank you. Roger Victoria, um,

Unknown Speaker  8:45  
I would say the biggest thing is to find an alternative

Unknown Speaker  8:47  
for housing.

Speaker 7  8:50  
My mom, I live in housing, and it's impossible to get out of it. It's impossible to save money. It's in, like, we can't hold no more than 5000 in the bank account. That's embarrassing. That's ridiculous. What do you mean? I can only have $5,000 to my name and that I'm supposed to live with and that's that's insane. We should not have to live like that. So I feel like, and if there is an alternative for housing that is still like the same as housing, being able to not stay in it, but being able to have a program where you start in housing, and then you end up making your way out of it, not to put yourself in it,

Speaker 1  9:26  
to stay about that when we stop just recording, relax.

Speaker 2  9:36  
10 years will do I want to see Boston like I don't know, because generally, this place is so unpredictable, they'll say one thing about their policies and then do another. So I never know what to expect. I feel like the politicians in Boston and the city of Boston's government has become very unreliable, a lot of empty promises, a lot of BS statements that I don't predict. We agree with.

Unknown Speaker  10:02  
And it's just like,

Speaker 2  10:05  
if, like, almost makes me want to give up on my city, because if I can't rely on the people in power to make change, then what, what am I gonna do? Like, it's like, I get better leeway talking to a brick wall about Boston shuffles than actual politicians. You can say that second despite all this and 10 years from now, I would like to see Boston become more friendly towards youth. I want like the youth, like the kids spaces that they have open when I was growing up. I want those back open, like play places, like good times and like margaines and all that other stuff. Like, I want that back. I want the charm that the Boston I grew up with. I want that charm back in the city, like, I want to be fun. I want it to, like, be like, a cool place to live and be like, Oh, back in the day we had this. Now it's a bank. Like, that's really, it's like, this, really, it's like, super disheartening. I want, like, Boston's original fun and charm and quirks in the city. I want plaster fun time

Unknown Speaker  11:23  
where kids did it their way,

Speaker 2  11:27  
like I wanted. I want. I want Boston to like, be enjoyable for all ages. I want people to actually settle down and like properly raise their families in 10 years, I want to see Boston be affordable. I highly doubt that that's going to happen, but ideally, I also won't be here to change, because in my experience, all the best change happens is when I'm not around, even with my high school, I went to visit, and things are so much better over there. But what I got told was that we were from the previous class to implement for the next class, so on and so forth. So I'm thinking, by the time I leave Boston and come back, maybe I'll see exactly what it was that I was looking for.

Speaker 1  12:17  
Thank you guys very much. Must stop this recording as.

