Unknown Speaker  0:00  
Yeah, that's, that's, that's very real,

Speaker 1  0:03  
yeah, yeah. I mean, we don't have to, I can just, I we don't have to do the recording. I can just take notes, but it does make it easier. Or I can take the recording and not put it up on not put it in the computer, just sit there and put it on Google and let Google type it all out.

Unknown Speaker  0:21  
I don't have to use

Speaker 1  0:24  
MIT's tool, their transcription. I don't have to, like, there's other ways around it. I'm okay with that. Whatever you guys need is

Unknown Speaker  0:33  
everybody comfortable having their voice up on MIT?

Speaker 2  0:39  
I'm not sure to be okay? Yeah, I'm not sure if I want that. I also understand that it's easier, so I don't want to make you work more. That's okay, but at the same time,

Unknown Speaker  0:49  
so do you have to write? Well, no,

Speaker 1  0:53  
no, no, no. While I'm a researcher, I'm a community researcher. So community comes first. Research comes second. Okay, okay, yeah. So we don't, I don't have to put it on the computer. I can just leave it on here. Use a separate computer to put it on a Google Doc, like, just play it for like, um, have aI type it up for me. So it's not really a lot more work. Oh, okay, yeah. So it's not, yeah, it's not really okay. I deal with Spanish, yes. Oh yes, yes. So the thing with so, the thing with a Google doc is you can add different languages and it'll just type with whatever. I might have to go in and be like, Okay, that's not what she said. Let me listen to this and fix that, but like, That's it, and I'm happy to share it too. Yeah. Okay, so we don't, I don't. I don't have to upload it. I really don't have to upload it. Richard will have to. I think the vibe here said, You got it, no uploading, but you're okay for me to record it so I can do it on a Google Doc, exactly, well. So like when I did this, when I did, when I and when I passed, I'm finishing this other project, and MIT was giving me a hard time. I was like, Listen, I'm out in the community. I'm okay with being gang adjacent, but I'm not okay with having a gang target on my back. Yeah, right, I'm okay with hanging out. Like, police can come and talk to me about the gangs all they want, but don't, don't say, but like, understand, like, I value that relationship with them, because if I need information, I know who I'm going to so, because I do community organizing, so and violence prevention, yeah, that's

Unknown Speaker  2:31  
is that what Richard calls you guys? That's

Unknown Speaker  2:36  
okay, all right. So if

Speaker 1  2:38  
you're gonna change your name, let me get everybody's name now, start with you. What's your name? Just like, and if you're gonna change it, let me know. What are your I'm Sylvia. Yeah, I know you're Sylvia. Are you changing your name? Um, come back to me. Okay. Gonna pick a name? Rosina, Baja cambian, yeah.

Unknown Speaker  3:01  
Okay. This will get changed. We

Speaker 2  3:07  
can come back. You will go back to your family. Okay, that's

Speaker 1  3:16  
so pretty. Are you changing? I had a perfect nickname for you.

Speaker 1  3:27  
Change it. Maybe impossible, right? I guess I'll just put this dude is let me see. Okay, good, but she never said, so, yeah, Let's go pick a name. Oh, I know.

Unknown Speaker  4:31  
Yellow. I just made it.

Speaker 1  4:44  
Right? They were in the gang, and they were trying to get out of the game and whatever, and they all changed their names, and then they looked at me, and you should be Al Capone,

Unknown Speaker  4:59  
yeah. I. Coupon

Unknown Speaker  5:02  
images. All right, great, okay, later,

Speaker 1  5:12  
that's okay, because we're gonna go in order. Okay, we're gonna go in order. So that way I can get everything and it's easier for Google to like, type it up, AI to like, understand it and all of that, that's fine. That's no problem. Do.

