Speaker 1  0:00  
Record it, and then you guys are gonna do that. So again, my name is Mari. I'm a community researcher, not the traditional researcher. I actually care about what people say, and I try to fix things. So we're gonna record this conversation. And if you could just tell me your name, and if you agree to be recorded, we'll start here. My name

Unknown Speaker  0:18  
is Maria, and I agree to be

Speaker 2  0:21  
recorded. I'm Jayden and I'm going to be recorded. I'm Mandy and I agree to be recorded.

Unknown Speaker  0:25  
I'm Carol and I agree to be recorded.

Speaker 1  0:32  
My name is katuza. Thank you, sir. Alright, so for the second part of this is, how do you guys feel today? How are you feeling today? I'm very hot.

Unknown Speaker  0:43  
India is very nice. Otherwise Great.

Speaker 2  0:47  
Feeling hungry, tired, but excited, nice. I'm feeling good, okay.

Unknown Speaker  0:56  
I'm irritated, annoyed, and I haven't taken a shower yet, and

Unknown Speaker  1:01  
I've been working since eight o'clock, so I might be a little right.

Speaker 1  1:06  
Everything you say here is safe. Feel free to say whatever you have say whatever you need to say regarding these questions. So you all have been part of the family nurturing center, yes, yes. And what programs have you participated in for musical babies, okay, two months old, up to four years old.

Speaker 2  1:30  
Okay, I'm with the Cape Verdean nurturing program with ages five to eight,

Speaker 3  1:37  
the Cape Verdean nurturing program, family nurture program, and I do the teenagers. Oh, nice. The Cape Verdean

Unknown Speaker  1:46  
nurturing program.

Unknown Speaker  1:56  
Okay, same age group, five to eight. She's the parent Young. Okay,

Speaker 1  2:03  
are you all parents? No, we're facilitators, so

Speaker 2  2:06  
we're all facilitators. She's a parent who participated in the program, okay? And her kids participate in our

Speaker 1  2:12  
groups. Nice. Okay, great. So here's the question, yeah, Richard and give me all this information, but that's okay. So can you share a good memory about the family nurturing center?

Unknown Speaker  2:26  
I have a lot of good ones, but

Unknown Speaker  2:29  
one of your favorites,

Speaker 4  2:32  
when I did with the because the two, two months old didn't show up, I did with a couple, two and three years old up to four, we did the family, where they did a picture of the family, and then the five family members and share their names with their brothers, their sister's name apart, and they had to sing and okay,

Speaker 2  3:06  
this is hard. I would say, just seeing all the kids personalities grow as they got, like, more used to being in the classroom with us, did not with any memory from like this past session. Okay,

Speaker 3  3:21  
I would say my favorite memory is family circle time, which is after dinner, we come together in a circle, and we do like an activity, and we sing our traditional songs. It's just good to see everybody participate, and then throughout the weeks, see how everybody like, learns, like the songs and get more excited to do them, and how it becomes like a routine throughout the weeks.

Speaker 5  3:48  
Think graduation was my favorite memory of this group, so it's my first year participating, just to see, like, all the families come together, interact and get their certificates, and watch like everyone kind of be proud of what they've accomplished in completing the program for

Unknown Speaker  4:06  
me, for me here, the best part happened

Speaker 6  4:10  
to me, because it helped me a lot with myself and with my kids,

Speaker 1  4:17  
too. Thank you. About follow up to that question, is there, as a result of coming to this program, do you know more about child development, or how a kid grows up and all of that? We'll start with you. Katisha,

Speaker 1  4:35  
coming to this program, participating? Have you learned a little bit more about how your child, thinks, behaves, and all of that, yeah, can you give me an example?

Speaker 6  4:51  
In Home? Sometimes they want to do their stuff, you know, I don't really have. And

Unknown Speaker  5:02  
here they they learn a lot of stuff, and

Unknown Speaker  5:05  
put in practice. And I

Unknown Speaker  5:13  
learned to, I pull the rules, everything I love.

Speaker 1  5:21  
So you, you teach, you take what they teach you here, and then you do it at home. Is there? Is there an example of that? Can you share one example of that, like, what? What activity did you learn here? And then you do it at home? It could be simple, yeah,

Speaker 7  5:38  
because if you did one inside the house. I put the rooms in the wall they see, they scream the fight with each other, because I have four kids. They stop this and they have consequence, or they do this, yeah, they don't have a

Unknown Speaker  6:00  
consequence. Oh, very nice. Same question,

Speaker 5  6:06  
same question. I said, did they repeat the question as a

Speaker 1  6:12  
result of coming to this program? Do you know about your Do you know more about child development?

Speaker 5  6:18  
I think more in like helping families develop in a family setting, it was a little more so the background I had was in early education, so to be able to take it outside of the classroom and help families be able to take it to the next level. What does

Speaker 1  6:35  
that environment, and can you share an example of that, like you actually saw the difference, like, from when the classroom went to like working at the family nurturing center,

Speaker 5  6:47  
like teaching the kids how to have their voice, like, No, I don't want to do that. Or being able to advocate for themselves appropriately, and watching some of the kids come up to dinner time and being able to advocate, no, I don't want that. No, please don't touch me. Don't give me space to use their words, yes, I love that.

Speaker 3  7:08  
I love that I would say for me, as you know, I work with the team group, and it's definitely it puts in perspective for me in regards to like, especially when it comes to like generations, because, I mean, I'm a parent as well, and I have younger kids, and so it's kind of like, you know, I'm living in that area where I'm raising these younger kids, but then working with the teens, I know what I'm like facing coming forward, and what's going on in the real world and what's up and coming. And so I definitely have learned a lot of about like, the developmental of like kids in different stages in life. And so I would definitely say that this program has definitely taught me that, and coming from the program and like, giving them, like she said, their personal power to have that voice, to advocate for themselves, and let people know that it's okay to express their feelings and what they're thinking and how to do that appropriately, and not kind of keeping that to themselves, especially when it comes to what's going on in the outside world right now, and being able to just put their voice out there. So definitely, I would say I've learned a lot of different developmental things working with a different age

Unknown Speaker  8:23  
group. Then, if you make me an example,

Speaker 3  8:27  
please, I mean, for my teens, I would say being able to, especially with their parents, it comes into, you know, we have a lot of conversations about, you know, at that age group, wanting more freedom, wanting to do more different things, and having that voice, and their parents kind of, you know, just trying to keep them safe and protecting them. But how do we be in the middle? Because your parents have a job to do, and you're still a kid? I know that you want that freedom, but this world too is kind of not in a good space right now, and your parents just trying to protect you. To protect you. So how do you be in the middle? And have to use your personal powers and your points to kind of teach and let your parents know where you're at, and you have to also show them that you know, that you can be trusted, and so working that out and teaching them those type of things. Thank you. You're talking

Speaker 2  9:23  
about, I would say for child development, I've learned as a facilitator that every child understands things differently and develops in their own way. So it's important for us as facilitators to like realize that, and find ways to teach the kids in the way that they'll be able to grasp the information that we're sending like we're giving them. An example, I would say there were some units where some students were very knowledgeable we were learning about and other students weren't. So it's like just taking the time to realize like not everyone like has the same speed of learning, and taking that time with those. Specific students on helping them or children and students, but I think that would be the way I would explain it. No,

Speaker 1  10:06  
that's good. There's no right or wrong answer. There are no right or wrong answers. Everybody's learning here, including myself. My kids are 31 and 24 so they still act like they're fine. Same question. I took a lot

Unknown Speaker  10:23  
of challenging development

Speaker 4  10:27  
class, plus the nursing class. So, you know, it's as she was saying, David, you know, shell comes in with, you know, its own. You know, everyone is different. Everyone learns differently. And it's when we are learning respect for one another. I show respect, they show respect. They show respect to their friends and mom and then, you know, outside world,

Unknown Speaker  10:59  
we have to share values, values,

Speaker 4  11:04  
which is important because there's a lot of pressure out there when you go to the store with your friend, take something you got a memory to say,

Unknown Speaker  11:20  
No, okay, and do you have an example for me?

Unknown Speaker  11:26  
You did? I just want to see if you had another one.

Speaker 1  11:30  
Can you, are you satisfied with the program? Are you? Are you happy with the program? I am very

Unknown Speaker  11:37  
used to my second

Speaker 4  11:42  
year, my second year, and I graduate and I respect the parents. With the kids, we form a bond and trust and bless with the parents. We respect them, and then everything you know that you enjoy and everything is, of course, confidential about academic

Speaker 2  12:02  
work. I would say I'm satisfied with the program. I grew up in the program because my mom was a facilitator. So now being a facilitator myself, it just sees like how much the program has grown throughout the years, and just the fact that it's still running after all these years, just so that it does do what it needs to do. So I was having satisfied.

Speaker 3  12:23  
I would definitely say I'm satisfied as well. I've been doing this program for about six years, and my little one as well was very young when I started this program. She was about three, I think when I started to program it. So, you know, even just being a facilitator and being a part of this group, and, you know, being a part of this community where we're all learning the same, because I'm a parent, not just a facilitator. So I can, I can, I can correlate with everybody what's going on. And so I think that, you know, it's just a safe space for everybody as parents and just learning together on how to make things better. It's good. So I definitely do enjoy this program.

Speaker 5  13:11  
I am satisfied with. It's my first year. So coming getting to know Bucha program is about how they function, because it's like

Unknown Speaker  13:20  
a family, little family.

Speaker 1  13:22  
It is once Richard has you. You're not going anywhere

Unknown Speaker  13:28  
at these same question, are you happy with this program? Yeah, it's happening a lot, not

Speaker 6  13:37  
only with my kids, but myself. I of myself,

Unknown Speaker  13:42  
great.

Unknown Speaker  13:45  
Would you add anything to the program?

Unknown Speaker  13:49  
Would you add something else to the program?

Unknown Speaker  13:59  
Some good kids here, who's a master's home and Okay, would you add anything to the program? No, no, I don't think I would add anything to the program. I

Unknown Speaker  14:23  
wish there was a playground. That's it. There you

Speaker 1  14:26  
go. Yeah. See that's adding something, yeah. Adding something could be anything. Maybe you want to Yeah, they used to do it

Speaker 2  14:31  
out of school. So whenever we have, like, free time, the kids like to play at the playground. And now we don't have it. I mean, we still find activities. Carol's great with activities so we figure it out, but that was like an easy activity to do. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  14:45  
would you add anything to the program?

Unknown Speaker  14:49  
I would need a I need a city plan selecting

Unknown Speaker  14:59  
this. To

Speaker 1  15:09  
me, No, you wouldn't add anything. Okay. Are you sure? Nothing? Maybe 15. There you go.

Unknown Speaker  15:18  
20, yeah, she said, add another five weeks.

Speaker 3  15:22  
I think for me, having done this program for a little bit longer, I think one component that we do incorporate once in a while, and it's kind of hard to incorporate, is but I think that adding it officially to the program, this one is an it's a family nurturing program. So it's moms, dads, kids, all of that sort and so I think that especially with the teen group that I work with, we usually incorporate a session where parent and the teens come together and they get to, like, talk about some topics that the kids bring up that they necessarily wouldn't on their own, to kind of have us be that support for them, to be able to advocate and give them their voice, to talk to the parents about certain topics. That might be hard. We do do that once in a while, but I think it should be a part of the curriculum is having at least one or two sessions where the parents and the teens, or if the kids in general come together and have a session where we can facilitate some hard conversations, or if there's a issue going on in the home, like help facilitate work that out in an appropriate way, or teaching them some positive ways of how to interact and deal with those issues. We talk about during the program to the parents about, you know how to be nurturing and how to you know that these kids have their voices and that they should be empowering them with their voices and all that. But I don't think that we put that into practice here. Say in the program, we always tell them to go home and practice those things, but you can't practice something that is new to you and that you necessarily don't know if you're doing right. So I think that putting that in practice in the classes would be a really good thing to add. Okay,

Speaker 8  17:10  
do you want to add something? So, did you want to add something to what?

Unknown Speaker  17:16  
Yep, that's how quickly I forgot. Nope. I I

Unknown Speaker  17:30  
don't

Speaker 2  17:32  
know. To me, I don't think the timing matters. So

Speaker 3  17:35  
personally, for me, the timing isn't really, yeah, we talked about maybe trying the program in the fall versus the spring. This program runs. Technically, it's usually 12 to 15 weeks in the spring time. So we were talking about maybe changing it to the fall and seeing if that makes like a difference. But I mean, it's just one of those things that you gotta test out, because I feel like the fall is a busy time too. People go back to school and sports and stuff like that. So some families might be really extremely busy, and this might not work for them versus the spring. But I mean, the spring is busy too, because everybody's coming out of, like, winter babies, yeah, I don't know, and everybody wants to be out, so it's a good time. So I don't know, but I think it's worth a try. Yeah, this is

Unknown Speaker  18:20  
the space to say that you want to hear, that you would like to do,

Speaker 3  18:23  
trying a different season, maybe for winter. Nobody goes out with me, right? But then to have more time, I'm not coming snow storm. You do virtuals that are virtual. You're gonna I did virtual, no, nothing. The whole thing, virtual within but it was hard for all the kids, not a lot of

Speaker 1  18:48  
kids. So So I hear technology is an issue. Well, no, we did

Speaker 2  18:51  
it virtual during COVID. I was a facilitator five to eight, but it was hard. Because not hard. Everyone had their own engaged computer, or, like, kids weren't really paying attention, because they'll be doing whatever they want, just on the zoom. So it wasn't, it's not the fact that, like, now it's a problem. It was more just during COVID.

Speaker 3  19:08  
I honestly like it in person better, because you need to interactions a lot better. But I'm just saying, like, if we did in the winter and it was a snow day, so that we don't, like on a day, we could just do

Unknown Speaker  19:20  
it, yes, on the summer,

Speaker 3  19:23  
yeah, it's a spring to a lot, like, when it starts warming up, and then people, they just want to go walk. Yeah, they want to go to the park. They want to do this. There's graduations going on to this event and the school event. So, like,

Speaker 2  19:41  
maybe, like October, yeah, it's like you still have time to start school. Going to get your groove. Like December, yeah, it's snowing hard winter, right?

Speaker 1  19:52  
We'll see. I'm very interested to hear what is the deep winter to you all? January.

Speaker 3  20:00  
February, March, or the or the actual weather, like snow cover me. It's about the blues. I just don't want to that's like hibernation season right there. Like you just want to be cuddled up in your blanket, your sweater, and not really blow much. Well, there's a lot of holidays in the fall. Listen, yes,

Speaker 2  20:26  
no, I'm not coming out. Try and follow, okay, I don't

Speaker 1  20:30  
know that's interesting. It's an interesting conversation, and you won't know unless you try it, right, right?

Unknown Speaker  20:38  
We're going to meet

Speaker 8  20:41  
you know what, and I'm gonna be sitting in the corner when I get a blanket, like, yeah, and

Speaker 1  20:49  
okay, so was there any part of the program you were not happy with, besides being on Zoom? Is there any part of the program that you are not happy with, or was a little challenging, because maybe you were happy with it, but maybe it's just a little

Speaker 2  21:04  
challenging. We had a lot of kids, me and Carol, we

Speaker 5  21:07  
did we had one of the learning groups. They had like 10 kids. It averaged between 10 and 12. Yeah, we did the case, and I put them all together. Oh, well, yeah, that's a lot 12 children, and just being able to teach them on the different age range, like the different spectrums, because everybody learns how to everybody learns at a different five times, right? And you have some that are fresh vibes, like just started kindergarten, and then you have some that are almost nine, almost nine, and know everything, and they're like and they want to speak through the lesson. So being able to bring a lesson to that very like five to eight age range.

Speaker 2  21:45  
And one of the facilitators left that does nine to 12. So then we got some kids from her group, and which also made it harder, because the same thing, it's like five girls learn way different than nine year olds. It's like a very big age gap. What was the question? What would change, right? Yeah, okay, yeah, so yeah, was there was anything challenged? Oh, that's so, yeah, that was a challenge, but we figured it out. But it definitely was like a little bump, just to try to figure out, like, the best way to go about

Unknown Speaker  22:13  
it. I think once we got our goals, though,

Unknown Speaker  22:16  
yeah, with all 12

Speaker 1  22:20  
and this is your first year. This is your first year here on family nutrient center. Four years,

Speaker 3  22:33  
yeah, second time doing it. Okay, yeah, so four years ago,

Speaker 1  22:40  
was there anything that was challenging for you that was a little difficult

Speaker 7  22:47  
the first time when I pursued Yes, because I used my mouth and I tried to either go,

Speaker 6  22:55  
but now It's better than I did on My face, my teeth. And,

Unknown Speaker  23:15  
yeah,

Speaker 1  23:21  
no, front of me. She said, right in front of her, right in front of you, just kidding. So here's some I have. So I have three more questions, and this is about you guys individually. All right, what is your question about your your place in Boston for the future. Like, how do you see yourself moving and not moving, like, From House to House. But how do you see yourself in Boston, in the future?

Unknown Speaker  23:50  
We can Okay.

Speaker 1  23:56  
How do you see yourself? How? What is your question about the future of Boston? A question. So everybody think about it. Take two seconds, 30 seconds, not two seconds. Take 30 seconds. And think about what is your question about the future of Boston? Do you want a piece of paper and you can write them down? She said, Nope, I'm just gonna be using but there's like, a question that I have,

Unknown Speaker  24:24  
yeah, yeah, how do they involve their youth

Speaker 2  24:29  
more? I feel like there's so many like activities, and then it's like people really show up for stuff, at least, like, for, like, the stuff I do for work, it's like hard to, like, find ways to involve the Youth and Community stuff. So I guess my question would be like, what are better ways that you like capture them, to make them interested, to do the activities that are Thank you. That's a good question.

Speaker 4  24:56  
My question, would we have any better events?

Unknown Speaker  24:59  
That's not going anywhere. What was it? What was the

Unknown Speaker  25:07  
question? So we can have left vitamins? How we get with

Unknown Speaker  25:09  
you? I'm working on the project for

Speaker 3  25:15  
that. My question is, what's going on with this? Education is lost in the school system invests in was another

Speaker 5  25:25  
question. Maybe it's the school system in general, not just the city. Like, how are we going to basically support our youth in the transition like, I feel like a lot of our education wise is so outdated, like the stuff that we're teaching and the school system needs to be evolving with what's evolving in our everyday lives. Are we gonna

Speaker 1  25:51  
do that? Do you have to put in your question? You already gave it? That was your question. I thought it was your question about the education. Sorry, more still today. Do you have a question about the future of Boston? You

Speaker 6  26:18  
don't have the brain rank, for the rent in the food

Unknown Speaker  26:30  
in the future? I wish they did.

Speaker 1  26:38  
Bad Boy, that's a good question about rent, the cost of living.

Speaker 3  26:41  
I mean, I'm from, I see I grew up in Boston. I'm from Boston. I grew up in Boston, but

Speaker 1  26:47  
I don't live in Boston. Okay, that's okay. I'm

Unknown Speaker  26:51  
outside of Boston. So for me, it's like,

Speaker 3  26:56  
I don't know. I feel like a lot of people. I feel like, as we get older, we have children, families, everybody wants to leave Boston, and the reason for that, I think, is a lot of the violence, a lot of the Educate, lack of support with the education system. I

Unknown Speaker  27:14  
don't know, Boston just so proudly. I mean, there's just so much

Speaker 3  27:16  
going on. I mean, I love Boston. I come and I need this because I'm from Boston, but oh no, that's tough.

Speaker 1  27:29  
Now think about so. So you guys all had very good questions. Thank you for that. What experience brought you to that question? So you said gun violence. What experience brought you to ask that question about gun violence while I stuck my face

Unknown Speaker  27:44  
with a piece of pizza,

Speaker 1  27:47  
that's gonna be the question for everybody. This was an education, Maria. That

Speaker 1  28:01  
was your question. Your question. Your question was about gun violence.

Speaker 4  28:08  
The reason I said that is because, like the other day, this guy,

Unknown Speaker  28:18  
he shot in 20k

Unknown Speaker  28:21  
15 years old

Unknown Speaker  28:25  
girlfriend. He was 21 I feel like

Speaker 4  28:31  
every day is screaming around like she's saying, we need more youth program, basketball, whatever they can have for kids, for free, not parents have turned up paying for it. There's a lot of

Unknown Speaker  28:54  
games, violence, Mandy,

Speaker 2  29:00  
I say, from my experience, there would just be seeing a lot of community events, and there's not a lot of people that show up. And it's like the money is being put towards these events and the time to, like, make these events happen. But then sometimes it's not the outcome that you expect. But also, I feel like if they can find a way to get youth more involved that could decrease the level of violence. It's also very talented city, so I feel like it can also enlighten, I guess is the word different talents The city has. I don't know. I just feel like targeting the youth is more important. It's easier to target youth than it is not easier, but it's beneficial to target youth while they're young, than trying to like solve a problem that is

Unknown Speaker  29:52  
part

Speaker 3  29:57  
from my experience. I mean, I. And in regards to my question was about the education in Boston, I wouldn't say, I mean, when I grew up in Boston, I went to school in Boston. I don't think that things were too bad, opposed to now, but working with the team group and hearing a lot about, you know, vaping and marijuana as being in school, and there's a lot of different challenges that taking away the actual education aspects of learning for these kids, because there's so much outside influences going on in these schools, is pretty scary to me. So it's like, how do we focus on making things? I don't know it's it's hard because it's like, drugs and all that stuff is like, you can only do so much of getting, like, keeping that out of the schools, but we need to do a better job, because it's really like, there's so much violence, there's so much drugs, there's so much all of that in the school system, that it's really just, it's a distract it's distracting these kids from education. And I don't know what we can do to really fix that.

Speaker 5  31:04  
The same meaning of whether we're at like watching technology progress and how advanced our kiddos are, and then watching some of the older teachers in the school system not be willing to advance with the kids. So a lot of our kiddos are getting left behind because they they learn it differently. Because I feel like the school system is very dead set on teaching to pass standardized tests, and not all kids can do that, so we see a lot of our titles left. How do we reach those kiddos that are lagging time because they can't reach that standard of

Unknown Speaker  31:40  
standardized tests?

Speaker 1  31:46  
Up, it's your turn, but you I can come back to you. So are you ready? No, okay, so you answered the question, but the question was about you, so you talked about what you would like to see for the use and all that you answered your question because you talked about your experience with gun violence. So how, based on the question that you asked, that you said the question you have for the future of Boston, what was your lived experience that brought you to that question? So what made you think of that question in your own life? I know, right? I feel like

Speaker 2  32:32  
it's hard because I don't live here. It's like I just I came to school here until high school, and I was lucky to go to private school, so I didn't like a lot of things. It's not like, I don't face the same things as public school, but not living here makes it hard. I feel like, what made me think of my question just like what I've heard from other people? Okay? So I'm considering that like to be an issue, because it's not. It's something everybody that's not talking about it, right? But I don't think I would have, like, my own lived experience, per se. Okay, I

Speaker 3  33:05  
guess for my lived experience, what I would say is that, like I said, I grew up in in Boston, I came up until middle school in Boston before I worked out from my experience, I would say that I think it's just unfair that these kids don't get the same type of education that I got back in the day, like, I guess, seeing and hearing from the kids that I work with today and how they have to deal with things, or the things that they're facing, the challenges that they're facing, I just feel bad for them, for the sake that they don't have that background that I had, if that makes sense, that experience, yes, that have been taken away from them. I

Speaker 5  33:46  
think working with the population in our field, that we come across the kids that are essentially being left behind in our school systems because they're not being reached at their level of learning. Okay, are you ready?

Speaker 1  34:04  
So your question was about food cost, rent, cost, what experience in your life brought you to that question made you think about that question.

Unknown Speaker  34:19  
Needed, health, code, rent, help

Speaker 6  34:23  
with my kids and the food.

Unknown Speaker  34:35  
Everything's expensive here Sure is.

Speaker 1  34:39  
And as you look around the room and think about what everybody has shared. Please speak to the person that you resonated the most with, like, who you connected the most with,

Unknown Speaker  34:52  
and talk about what you

Unknown Speaker  34:54  
said. Talk about what you said. So like,

Speaker 1  34:58  
I'm from COVID Square. I. In my part of Cognizant Dorchester, and the last three weeks, we've had four shootings, all fatal. So that's a problem for me. That's a that's a problem for everybody. So what you said makes a lot of sense, like, what are we doing to curb, to stop the gun violence, right? So that's a that's a that's it's a problem for everybody, but like in my neighborhood, it happens. It happens too frequently. Well, any shoes, it's too frequent. So I understand what I understood the question, and how was the city of Boston moving to fix that problem? So it is a question. No, no, I'm just saying that I that I connected, connected to what you said. Yeah, so that's all I'm trying to do.

Speaker 2  35:44  
I connect to Mandy because I agree with the fact that growing up having resources and having opportunities to do activities and like the identification system that I grew up in, and seeing the difference now, and it's like unfair, in a sense, because, like those kids should be able to have the same opportunities, no matter and no matter what. So I would say that I agree on our point for that.

Speaker 3  36:15  
Um, I would say that I agree with

Unknown Speaker  36:21  
Carol,

Speaker 3  36:22  
because they sound like we share the same educational piece, and I think that in regards to the sector that we work in, and this group that will help facilitate that, it's a big thing in regards to just making sure that our kids are getting The best, having the resources and the best quality of education that they can get so that they can thrive and they can be these great people that, you know, they can grow up to be, so that for the city of Boston, because this is where they are, and this is where they continue to be, and they're the ones who are our future. So if we're lacking the education, we're lacking those supports in that system, how are we going to get there? We need these we need these kids to get there, because they're the future. So that's where I come

Speaker 5  37:15  
from. I think I'm going to say I resonated with Jaden Jayden, the community. Like being able to pull in the community a lot more to help with some of these issues, and then to teach the, you know, the struggle of having to pay rent and put make sure that food is on the table so watching families, you know, struggle with that kind of stuff a lot, because I couldn't imagine the struggle of deciding how my kids gonna eat, or am I gonna pay a bill? Choices, whenever you're ready to do stuff, I think Boston and

Unknown Speaker  37:59  
burden even person have to do something to check on this, and

Speaker 6  38:06  
we have to work all through the organization more to help about This situation.

Unknown Speaker  38:19  
Is there anything else you'd like to share now is the time

Speaker 4  38:26  
I kind of agree and disagree with that motivation. Last time

Unknown Speaker  38:33  
we have, I believe we are

Speaker 4  38:38  
the poorest, especially in Roxbury forest community. People, because everybody, most of the people, I should say, don't make as much money as

Unknown Speaker  38:50  
the people of Western Milton,

Speaker 4  38:53  
you know, because they make more money. So of course, they want to have supporting another vote of another word of like, I'm not gonna say stuff, but to you know, for the school to go to school with the kids, because the school, they can do so much. And the reason I said they didn't do so much is because of whatever funding. Okay, so they work with what they had, and then they built from there. I was a teacher. We had a, I should say, a lot of few extra activity for the parents, but because they work, some of them work too hard in order to pay for rent or pay for food. So it was kind of tough for them to bring their kids to of course after school, bring their kids to Boys and Girls Club, and if they have to send somebody to. Benefit that way, this lady that drives a guy turned out

Unknown Speaker  40:05  
he was no money.

Speaker 4  40:07  
But if we can come up with a grant or some type of support and provide a number for every case, I think it shouldn't start only with you. It should start with by tonight, because some kids, they start, No, I shouldn't say trouble, but that's where you know, because bullying and you know peer pressure starts at early age that you start to build them up from early age life to you. And I think you know that's how we should get funding on, you know, helping our kids, not because a lot of them, they will respect, they will somewhere else to get better education. I do agree we need to better our education system, because the kids,

Speaker 2  41:04  
I think Boston has money, like Boston has money. And I see in work, the money that they will put to stuff that they want to put to stuff, there's money. So I think it's just alerting the people with the money and saying, Hey, maybe stop putting so much money at the police and put some more money towards education. I feel like that's what needs to happen. I don't think that it's like the city's poor and we don't have money to, like, support the children. I think it's more of they're putting the money in their own places, and they're not distributing it correctly. That's what I think. Well, thank you. I think we, when I went up

Speaker 4  41:46  
with police officers putting all those white beans on the road. Yeah, that's kind of money. So Emily could have had until,

Speaker 9  41:55  
you know exactly, switch for younger kids and stuff. So

Speaker 1  42:02  
definitely listen, there's no wrong answer here, no wrong answers and no judgment. Anybody else want to chime in? Speak your mind,

Unknown Speaker  42:12  
it's all good. I'm telling you. There's nothing I haven't heard.

Speaker 1  42:16  
And a lot of what you all have said, I've heard it in other conversations as well, in different age groups. So it is it crosses different generations and different races, races and ethnic backgrounds. So really let it all hang out. I

Speaker 8  42:40  
Oh, my God, she was not giving you that side eye. She's like, Yeah,

Speaker 3  42:52  
it's a circle. It's a it's a cycle, because there's a lot of things that need to happen for changes to happen? She's talking about rent and food being, you know, a problem. Then you got his parents working two or three jobs to put food on the table and make rent. So where are the kids at? And if there's no services, these are kids going to in the schools they have doing some of these support where these kids, they're on the street, or, what if, if they're on the street, what are they learning on the street? And visit good things. So there's a lot of moving parts that is like, when you start

Speaker 3  43:40  
it's a ripple. I feel like it's a ripple exactly like I feel like there's really no like, real answer to like, where I don't know. It's just it's tough I don't know, and things just seem to go worse and worse and worse, and not really better. Like this generation of kids right here, let me tell you, I can't they're real different. They're real different. They are bold, they are out there. They are just, it's different, and it's hard because as a parent, and it's hard and it's sad to see, because I'm raising young girls in this generation, I'm trying to teach them to, you know, have certain morals and values, and this is despite of whatever somebody tells you that's not the right way you you gotta scan for yourself, like, this is how we're doing it. This is what you want to be, and this is how you continue to be. But it's hard because it's influences, and there's a community, and they go on the real world, and you can only do so much as a parent, and so it's it's hard, what do you do?

Unknown Speaker  44:50  
And I can't

Unknown Speaker  44:57  
speak to after it's not going to record. So. You can't see, wow, the

Unknown Speaker  45:05  
researchers, I have to wait till I turn it off. But I agree. I definitely

Speaker 1  45:10  
agree. I've been doing this for a long, long time. It's

Speaker 3  45:15  
different, like I said, like, it's just different, because I grew up in Boston, and things were just so much different. And throughout the generations, things just seem to be getting worse and worse, and it's like, where are we going from this? And we're we're raising our children, and it's like, you want to teach them and have those continue to have those quarrels and values, and you want to keep going down the right path. But then other courses push through other ways.

Speaker 1  45:48  
So you've worked with kids from five to teenage years to like babies babies all the way up to teenagers. And what's your cutoff age for teenagers? 18?

Speaker 3  46:01  
I think it's 18, but I've had 15, yes, 1515,

Speaker 1  46:11  
and my parents, and the parents Okay, and, and

Speaker 8  46:17  
I'm just, this is, I don't know, so that I'm asking this question,

Speaker 1  46:21  
is there a component in there that talks about the development that children their brain doesn't actually finish developing until they're in their after college? 2024 Yes. There was a possibility, yes. And so that's my question, my

Unknown Speaker  46:45  
question. So my question is,

Unknown Speaker  46:49  
the the things that you're

Speaker 1  46:51  
teaching the kids and the parents take home to reinforce with the children do is that then do you then come back to those families to see how it's going to like track, to make sure it's maintained, it's it's adapted, because since the top the brain of the child is still developing, up until the end of college at 24 years old, 2223 years old, if they Don't, if they don't if they don't go to college. 2223 years old, and then are there mechanisms in place to help the parents with that as well? I'm asking because, because

Unknown Speaker  47:32  
we where I work, we work

Speaker 1  47:34  
with everyone. We work with that. We don't do child development, but we're working with, like, young adults. And sometimes I look at them and I'm like, where's the critical thinking? I know we taught you this. Like, what happened?

Speaker 3  47:47  
No, that's very much this generation. Like, I feel like, in general, like you said, you're like, where's this thought process coming from? Because it's kind of like common sense type of stuff. Sometimes, you know, like, I'm not getting how this is not connected.

Speaker 10  48:04  
To answer your question, Natalie had a nurturing circle for parents, sometimes once a month, so after the program, if they wanted to participate that now she's a parent who participated, feel free to ask her questions.

Speaker 9  48:20  
If she learned two factors, or how she did. She did

Speaker 8  48:23  
talk about it. Okay? She did talk about it. Yeah. So I

Speaker 2  48:31  
feel like during the program, the program provides the families with the tools, but there's only so much that we can do, and we're not going to show up to their house and say, Hey, are you making sure that you guys are doing XYZ? So I feel like it's also up to the parent to say, okay, like I'm actually going to take what I learned from this and use it at home. But I feel like there's only so much we could do. Oh, no, absolutely, absolutely,

Speaker 3  48:56  
yeah. I feel like the program is more regards to teaching them, in regards to how in like this in this generation, in this like in your community, and parenting in general, how to be more nurturing, how to take a nurturing approach in regards to raising your children and kind of through all your frustrations of parenting, how to continue to be nurturing and giving, all while giving your kids the voice and having them be a part of that process, because it's a learning curve for everyone. There's not a manual for how to be a parent. There's not a manual about how to be a class to 9k or a teenager. So it's a learning curve for the family unit. So that's just the tools that we give them. Is that you know you're going to go through ups and downs and bumpy roads, but if you stick to a model of being in your training and giving everybody as a human their voice and respect each other's opinions and thoughts, that's how you move. You got use that to guide you together, violence. Minimum, sorry, you use that tool to guide you through the years, situations and all of that.

Speaker 4  50:10  
I think the question is correct, if I'm black, do we do any follow up? Yeah,

Speaker 3  50:15  
I don't think we as facilitators. We don't. Yeah, we know we as a visit to taters, do not follow.

Speaker 10  50:26  
I don't necessarily Are you practicing? But the facilitators or parents, they are still in these towns, make sure that you're here and really practice. If your practice, that's what she was saying. Yes, I have my own

Unknown Speaker  50:46  
robes and the wall.

Unknown Speaker  50:48  
I'm not gonna take

Unknown Speaker  50:51  
them. That's good all

Unknown Speaker  50:54  
the time they try to do something. We have a

Unknown Speaker  51:00  
rope. They sold my yell sometimes, absolutely, she felt consistency, right?

Speaker 10  51:08  
And so basically, we gave the parents the techniques, new techniques, perhaps that they didn't have before, because when they grew up, or they grew up, or she grew up, totally different. Oh, yes. So sometimes, kind of stuff they look to do instead of, yeah, how to communicate with the children of the children to communicate. And various times, kids will say to me, I'll give you a specific example. My knees, right? She She's very smart. Her head, she has a long line of all the things right because she has a personal power. She feels good. So she says, my grandfather wants me to respect it, but he's a respect both right there. So you know, if you give parents those two techniques, what to do, how to respect their children, how to communicate with their children, then they'll get a setback, absolutely and for rules, like she says, We have rules who start with 95 and when rules become to have it routine, consistency. So that's we give families. That's great advice. They use it. I old school parent. Okay?

Speaker 1  52:40  
Definitely the old school parent. Okay, well, this is great. Y'all were wonderful. Thank you for answering my questions. Does anything else you want to share? Okay, I'm going to turn this off. I.

