Speaker 1  0:00  
So okay, so it started to record. So Do y'all consent to being recorded? This will be shared with myself, two other people at the family nurturing center, and that's it. I'll keep it safe in the Google Drive with a specific password. I use a platform called fora, and what for does is it transcribes it. I go in and correct it based on the recording, and then I pull out information, and before I share it with anybody, I come back and ask permission. Is it still okay to use this? That's fine, do y'all can? So we're gonna go around the room. Y'all gonna tell me your names again, either you consent or don't consent. And you can even change your names. We'll start with you.

Speaker 2  0:37  
Randy Johnson. I can say Jonathan Williams, I can say

Speaker 3  0:41  
Emmett snow. I can see David Leo. I consent. Michael Fauci, thank

Speaker 1  0:48  
you so much. And then I'll have you guys sign the consent form when you guys did your gift card, so y'all did your check in. So we're not going to do that. I'm not going to bore you with that. We're going to go right into the questions. First question is, would, we'll start to right now. We'll start to my left. Would you like to would any Would you all like to share a good memory about the family nurturing Center?

Speaker 4  1:12  
First introduction, meeting everybody, being in a new environment, feeling welcome, then knowing that the group had a manual that they started off with, a book, President, Father book, and we did each chapter on each meeting, and with each chapter, I learned something new about myself and improved in improving being a better father. I'm very grateful for that, and I felt very comfortable with the people around my room and now mine. Great. David, for me,

Unknown Speaker  1:47  
it was the bottom of the group

Unknown Speaker  1:51  
when we started. It was when

Unknown Speaker  2:00  
we started was this gentleman

Speaker 1  2:13  
saying, Mike, Mike, sorry, I told you. Mike,

Unknown Speaker  2:20  
take two. No, it was

Speaker 3  2:22  
for me, it was the bond of the group. When we first got together, it was a group of guys, but as a group, developed when we started talking about those, those things that were touching, we all bonded, and we became support for one another, and that for me, created not only a group of accountability, but a but a band of brothers that, you know, I can lean on and that hold me accountable for for my stuff and be the best man that I could possibly

Speaker 1  2:57  
Thank You. David, Mister snow, and I remember that because

Unknown Speaker  3:03  
Game of Thrones.

Unknown Speaker  3:10  
Well, I'm new to them. I'm saying I haven't been to the father yet. Definitely on my agenda, you

Speaker 5  3:21  
know. It just fits perfectly on, you know what, what I'm doing, and I have other kids as well, and I feel so that

Unknown Speaker  3:32  
being a responsible person

Speaker 5  3:37  
and having children being responsible person is definitely something with that spark my interest and being around my brothers saying I feed off of them. My father wasn't in my life. So not only do I have fathers, I also have brothers as well. And that's, that's, that's a blessing for me.

Unknown Speaker  4:00  
Thank you so much. Jonathan, yes,

Unknown Speaker  4:03  
yes,

Speaker 2  4:09  
I agree with everything that's been said.

Unknown Speaker  4:18  
I say that's a big one just seeing like

Unknown Speaker  4:23  
being able to see like

Speaker 2  4:28  
the young men here, you know, just like all of us, the things that we went through, and then how the changes that we've made, and then that we're Making in our life, and the impact that we have on each other, and how we feed off the positivity we feed off each other, is really, is really inspiring.

Unknown Speaker  4:53  
And

Speaker 2  4:55  
to be honest, I don't know what other group is out here, what program is doing. It like? This, like, we the things we talk about, the touchy, sensitive topics we talk on, and like, how we motivate each other. You know, it's just, it's a amazing brother. I got two brothers that's incarcerated, that's not there. So these guys, I look at them like my,

Unknown Speaker  5:24  
you know, like my brother, and then

Speaker 2  5:30  
it's amazing. I'm just, I'm thankful for it, grateful. There's so much more that the the family nurturing Center has done for me to help me become a better version of myself. But I really look forward to what we meet every week, with the with us, and, um, and what we share when we what we share with each other. You know, it's just again. This last thing I want to say, it's amazing, and it's just like it helps me become a better a better parent and seeing you know not just to realize when I go at the end of the week, when I'm doing whatever I gotta do, and I come back, we're all battling with something, and we come here and we share what we're what we're going through, and how we overcome our challenges. Is it's really just inspiring. So it's been, I just say the bond and get into getting the game of family of brotherhood. So that's

Speaker 6  6:31  
right, right? I haven't attended the nurseman Fauci, like he said, I'm new, but, you know, I'm willing to, like, you know, attend to, like, some meetings, and just learn more about parenting, you know, because I don't know it all. You know. I can know. I can learn something every day and and, like he said, You know, I like the bonding, the love, the concern, brotherhood, because we need that boss. You know, there's so much negativity, and everybody's trying to prove their man. They will show their feelings. But here you show your feelings. You know, you open up and nobody criticizes you. You know, we on our grown man stuff. You know, we just trying to build each other up, not tear each other down. And like, if we do have a problem, we come to the table with it, and everybody has their you know thing to say, you know, to build you up. And it just comes, you know, all different ideas and and suggestions, and it's just good. And after the meeting's over, you know, I'm ready to go. I said, good, you know. And is it like? I said, the love and support, it's here. Thank

Speaker 1  7:41  
you so much. All right, so those who are new, if you can only speak to the this particular group, that's fine. Those who know more about the family nor dream, have been a part of it, different part, different parts of it, you can speak to that as well. Like it doesn't have to be you know, this is what you know, then this is what you know. And then if the rest of you know other parts of it, you can speak to that as well, and that's fine. All right, so

Speaker 7  8:09  
y'all kind of touched on this next question, so I might go a little bit deeper about it.

Speaker 1  8:17  
Share a good memory about the family nurtures and that was good for you and the staff, yeah. So dig a little deeper, and if you all witness that, how it how it also had impact on the staff, saying so

Speaker 4  8:40  
with the Father and nurturing group, I remember we had a discussion about how our youngest, this is us talking about father figures for our children, and how we relate to how our youngest look at us like a reflection, and they imitate what we do. You know? So by by giving that positive example, or what we should do when to give a positive example, you show that, like everybody had a related story brought up, like, like, fear when you discipline your kid, how to deal with disciplining your kid, and one of The things that we shouldn't do is put fear, you know, because then it'll bring it to other situations where they be afraid to say something if they know they gotta be punished or yelled at. So we didn't want to, like, put fear in them, and then something happened where we needed to know and they were too afraid to tell us. So it was a situation where we all sat down and we related to that, and it was something I me as an example. I did prepare my daughter, and I can relate to where something that was important, that needed to be said to me was a section she was afraid that she was going to get punished for. And. With learning. And I was very grateful for the book that we were studying, because it taught me a lot. So, like, we learned how to deal with certain situations, you know, we're in a new time age where, like, phones and tablets are like the way for kids. They every kid have with every you know. So like, dealing with situations like that. If this this, I want to take it, take it from a more COVID Time out. And so like, everybody had a story, and with each story, I could relate to part of that story. And it just made me feel whole. It made me feel like I wasn't the only person going through it, because everybody can relate to it. So yeah, that was like, that. That's something. And then, like, now I use that, that learning step, that wasn't that learning lesson, and deal with certain, you know, deal with it now. And it's beautiful because her reaction, my daughter's reaction, is beautiful, because she'll come to me and tell me immediately, because, you know that there's no consequences of being honest. So I learned that outside. I was very grateful for learning. So I learned something in the group, and then not just learn it, but I wouldn't say by acting on what I learned, and the results came back as it did in the group, and it was from physical experience.

Unknown Speaker  11:07  
Thank you. Amen.

Speaker 3  11:11  
So for me, was last graduation, so this is probably

Unknown Speaker  11:19  
become about my 10th group

Speaker 3  11:24  
we did at the HLC. And this is my third, my second group outside of the HRC. And I'm sorry, what is HLC? House of corrections. Thank you, Suffolk, county house of corrections. I'm sorry. This one was graduation. It was it was amazing because not only did we share in the fact that we made it and we talked about it, it was amazing because for some of us, some of the guys in our group, it was the first time that they graduated, and it was just great to see how how guys would, how guys got dressed up, how the family was here, and the way that they treasured our group. It just filled me away because it was something that was a life memory. It was a life memory for them. They wanted their whole family here. They wanted whole family sharing it, and I was staffed for that. So it affected me in a way that no other class affected because it was something that was really treasured, and it was really big. It was big for them. Many they held it. They held it very close to themselves. It was, it was powerful, and the

Unknown Speaker  12:55  
name of that group,

Unknown Speaker  12:58  
okay, thank you. Sorry. That's okay.

Unknown Speaker  13:03  
Thank you so much. Yes,

Speaker 5  13:08  
Mr. Snow, I'm new to follow me, but all standing in the gap is something that is dead in my heart. And I will tell you why that is dead to my heart is because there are a lot of children that don't have fathers, between the ages of seven months and young adults that are out there in the streets hanging out they don't have fathers. And the best, best best thing that we can give them is attention, love, respect. You know what I'm saying, and I've done a lot of father's groups when I was inside, and I think that I got more as of right now with the father's group that I would participate in when I was inside. So it was, it was, it's very intriguing how you got all different brothers from inside, when I was inside, that would come to these groups and express their feelings about being a father, because their fathers wasn't in their lives, and it's a blessing for me to be able to share this with him. Is because I have two older children that are 36 and I was in prison all their life. So being able to come out here and be able to stand in that gap, fill in that gap, it's just been a blessing. Like I said, Man, I learned from my brothers, and I can't wait to see what this is gonna take me. I just can't wait is, you know, like I said, this

Unknown Speaker  15:04  
is my, I think, my third meeting, fourth, and be

Speaker 5  15:09  
able to come in and be able to share my experience as a father, especially being an incarcerated father, it was tough, and I just can't wait to see what this takes. Thank you, Jonathan, Mr.

Speaker 2  15:28  
Jonathan, I'm sharing some of my accomplishments and seeing seeing how happy the staff were and everyone else was. That was like, that was really cool. It was a positive moment for me to have, like, gotten a job and then just to see how, you know, my peers and the staff were, like, really happy for me. That was that was really cool, just to know that, you know, someone is just, just to see how happy they were, like, you know, every week just reminded me of that. Because sometimes I just get caught up in just doing what I do, just like they're not paying in No, much of a mind, but they'll just say, like, remind me how good you're doing, how good I'm doing. And so I appreciate Aaron that helps me just want to keep

Unknown Speaker  16:25  
making right

Unknown Speaker  16:26  
choices, you know.

Unknown Speaker  16:28  
Thank you. Yeah,

Speaker 6  16:30  
and what I get out of the meetings that we do here, sending the gap, is like, all the issues you know, that families have, especially like when they in and out the system, like the children, and it's like, it's certain, like things that I want to address and things that I can relate to. Because I was out there ripping it, running, doing drugs and stuff, you know, and at the time, I didn't realize what I was putting my kids through. I mean, I would get them anything they want and all that. But it was like, as a parent, I wasn't a good parent, you know, and now there's a certain need that that needs to be addressed, and it's like, you got to focus on the kids, you know. You're hearing all these kids having problems, you know, with school and stuff like that and that that that comes from, like, the parents you've been in, running, doing drugs and stuff, and it's like, certain things that I wanted to address, because I can relate to that, you know, because while I was incarcerated, I was doing, like, the skid straight program, and, like, I actually sat down with some real bad kids, and like, both of us wind up crying, and I was like, Yo, I was there. I put my, you know, I put my kids through that, you know. And like, there was times when I was locked up and things happened and I wasn't there, and I felt helpless, you know. So that's, that's what I'm getting made. I mean, some of the stuff that said, and it like, it strives me to do better and be better, you know, to be a that adult that they gonna look up to and trust. So that's, that's, that's my main goal, is to be that person.

Unknown Speaker  18:13  
Thank you. Thank you all, um,

Speaker 1  18:17  
let's shift a little bit as a result of coming to this program. Do you know more about child development? And then, if so, can you give me an example

Unknown Speaker  18:31  
to know more? Or you know? Yeah, do you know more?

Speaker 4  18:34  
I know I'd be better than me, especially around my children as a dad, I like I see a difference when, when my kids are with the mother, they feel comfortable, they feel safe, and it's a little worse dad. It's like spontaneous, little dangerous, safe, a little dangerous, and but, but they love it. They love the adventure. So it's like, it's the wild card, you know? And especially, I got girls. I got nothing but girls. I have three daughters. So, yeah, see, so, like, so when it so, it's not, it's not more, it's more, like I'm obligated, and it's a privilege to to just embrace them and live like that, that lifestyle, just like trying to make everything fun, we'll do everything fun, and it's just dealing with how to deal with situations when it occurs. You know how to like, so like, not every time everything's gonna be fun, it's gonna be sad moments, mad moments, um, angry moments, and before even nurturing fathers, I didn't know how to deal with I wouldn't even know how to deal with fun, adventurous dad. You know, I was that guy, but learning how to deal with like I or my daughter's sad. How should I deal with like? I should just give her junk food or. If I had like a cop toy, you know, but I learned a new school. It's best to sit down talk to figure out what's making them sad. Just my my daughters feel more open and relaxed to tell me anything. So that's, that's what really is to make my kids feel more relaxed, comfortable around me. You know, like it, it wasn't just being a fun day. Now it's like, I like when, where I wish I'm trying. Now you want me to think of trying to think of a time when my daughter got scared, and I'm not glad probably was scared too. I this couple times when we both were scared, loud noises or some more, the lights went out, and my daughter looked up to me like that. You could fix this, having that power, having that her looking down me looking down on her as you looking out like that. I know you got this, because I feel safe. I got that from that group to take the initiative, to take that stand.

Unknown Speaker  21:01  
Thank you. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  21:02  
I need a question again,

Speaker 1  21:05  
David, as a result of this coming to this program,

Speaker 8  21:11  
do you know more about child development? And if you can give me an example, um,

Unknown Speaker  21:20  
I do know more about child development,

Unknown Speaker  21:24  
and learned about being safe.

Unknown Speaker  21:28  
Know about creating,

Speaker 3  21:31  
creating the safest place for a child. And I learned that a lot of times we didn't have it growing up. Yes, man, we didn't have it, you know, it wasn't something that we were taught in our culture. We had the man up, whatever it was, you know, we had the man up. We couldn't cry, we couldn't show emotions, we couldn't even be vulnerable. And so, you know, learning, learning where the safe place is for kids, and then understanding the how to create it for them. It really, it really helps you understand the role of the father, to be a nurturer and to be a caretaker, and to be and to be that one who sets the tone for the safety and the security and the peace. And I learned that and then watched it develop. And with my girls, it's, it's like, instead of them looking for a place of safety. On the place of safety, because not only did I create a space for them to feel safe, I created a space for them to be able to come into safety. So no matter where they are, they come right on in. And my daughter just turned 36 and six, and on her 34th birthday, she called me in tears, Halloween, something happened, and to know that she picked up phone. I'm 1700 miles away, she picked up the phone, and she had to talk to me in order for there to be a place she felt safe.

Unknown Speaker  23:30  
Can't pay money for that. Thank you so much

Speaker 5  23:36  
for me, my answer would be, have I been being in the room? Have I become a better

Unknown Speaker  23:50  
question one more time

Speaker 1  23:52  
as a result of coming to this program? Do you know more about child development, and if so, can you give an example? No,

Speaker 5  24:01  
okay, I don't know more about child development because I was a father from both in incarcerated. So just to just recently, so to my to answer that question, no, but

Unknown Speaker  24:17  
okay, that's what I was looking

Speaker 5  24:20  
for, is the restart of learning that process and coming here around my brothers and learning from them how to be a nurturing father, knowing what those boundaries are, knowing all the things that that can help him in the long run, is going to make me a better father. So, yeah, this is, this is, this is my, my restart right here, because I've been in prison, you know, and right now I have a son. That's incarcerated way in trial. So it's tough. You know, it's really tough, but this is

Unknown Speaker  25:16  
my Yeah. Thank you, Donovan,

Speaker 2  25:22  
yes, I definitely know more about child development. My son's three. He'll be four this, this year. I'm a first this. I'm a first time dad. So all of this is new to me, and in the things that I'm learning here. You know, not having a dad, my dad, present in my life, beginning years, is a lot of things I just don't know about being a dad. So this program has opened up those has enlightened me about being a dad, and the development as an example. You know, I learned so much because, as I'm doing my best to be a present dad or nurturing dad, everything, every I'm learning something new, every every time you meet and every time I talk with, you know, the guys about this topic, but, um, consistency is a big part, you know, I'm learning paying attention to, you know, the emotions, and pay attention to their emotions. And, you know, just not taking, not taking things too personal, like, you know, seeing, like, if they react with someone this way, rather, they react how they react with me, my son, speaking, you know, just learning, like, just picking up on those signs, like, what does that mean? And and again, just like being really, just being patient and understanding that,

Unknown Speaker  27:03  
like it takes time.

Speaker 2  27:06  
One thing I learned was like, one thing that stuck with me is discipline, meaning to teach like, you know, it doesn't always mean you gotta, you gotta be like forceful, like you gotta. You gotta hit your child or something like that, like discipline is like taking the time to teach them before you even result to doing something like that. So, um, yeah, it's just, I definitely am. I definitely learned, and I'm still learning every time I feel with this information, is knowledge. Next, my next child, I'll definitely be a better I have that experience to raise better based off of this. That is so

Unknown Speaker  27:50  
true. The more kids you have, the better parent you become.

Unknown Speaker  27:54  
So true. I only got 230,

Unknown Speaker  27:58  
1k out to us, then they changed. Well, I

Speaker 1  28:04  
don't have three kids, but I got two girls and I got a dog, and my dog is in line.

Speaker 6  28:14  
Dog is in line is like, I listen, pay attention and listen more, because my son, my oldest son, he's 33 right now. He has two girls. He just had a boy and, like, I haven't He lives to Texas, so I haven't had the time to, like, spend time with my grandkids. But when I talked to him, I give him lessons that I had learned, like, the mistakes that I made. Don't you make those mistakes, you know? And like, what boosted me up, you know? He's like, he's like, really into his kids, you know. And he he made a comment, like, somebody asked him, like, why he was so nervous when he was like, I got this from my father. I mean, my my biggest comfort is, like, having my child on my chest sleeping. You know what I'm saying is just, like, just watching you just look at him, like, yeah, you're safe. I got you, you know, and like, I passed that off to him, and you know, that made me feel a little better. But, you know, like I said, I still got a lot to do when, like, I'm just gonna, but I get wrong, I'm gonna make sure I don't do that with my grandkids.

Speaker 8  29:31  
You know, thank you. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  29:36  
Um,

Speaker 1  29:39  
let's see here, because you guys answered a bunch of other questions, um, if the family nurturing, if any of the programs you guys participated in gave you a referral,

Unknown Speaker  29:52  
were your needs met with that referral?

Speaker 1  29:57  
So if the program that you're like this. Program, or the nurturing fathers program, provided a referral to other services not covered by family nurturing center. Was that referral? Did that referral meet your needs?

Speaker 4  30:12  
I wasn't referred. So I had someone visit me in prison, and then so I'm grateful that people actually do that. You know, right before I got released, first time incarcerated, did eight months. I was through two years, got off early on parole, and suddenly, just sitting in the cell, I took any opportunity to get out myself, to the library, started reading more, I took classes, I got my GED in prison, and then when I got to cwp, they started having groups where, when I got the ability to be trusted, to be free a little, when they gave an opportunity to I could walk around the prison, you know, because they, you know, were they wild or not like that? They started showing groups where you could meet other people from the outside. And we, they tell you, you know, they help you. They put you towards the right direction when you get released, I love them, though. I thought everything was going to be the same. I thought, we just go back to work. You know, I got spanked on the wrist real quick, and I wear something. Well, I wasn't referred. I guess the referral was the people that took the time to come into the prison, and that's my referral. And when I got out and got released, there was so many people that came, but you could tell, like, I know they're doing the best. They're doing their best for us, but you can tell individuals who's doing it for the money, and then people who had passion for it. So I was lucky, fortunate enough to meet someone that had the passion for it and really stood by it, that actually went through the experience and and they, they got saved, and they, they wanted to take the favorite back. Now, was that

Speaker 1  31:48  
through the family nurturing center, or through, how would you count the corrections?

Unknown Speaker  31:52  
So he was referring,

Unknown Speaker  31:54  
he was referred to him. So, right. So

Speaker 1  31:58  
to have you received, let me ask it this way, if you received any outsourced outside resources from the family nurturing center to other organizations. Were they successful? Did they work for you?

Speaker 4  32:09  
So they never provided with any other group that I Okay? So, right, he was referred to

Speaker 3  32:15  
the RC, yeah, yeah, yeah. He was referred to Officer becoming citizens through the family group, and so we also, we also did, we also did a letter for his Coronavirus.

Speaker 4  32:29  
Okay, yeah, okay, yeah, alright, thank you. Successful,

Speaker 7  32:34  
very successful Angel, those are the only referrals you've ever gotten. Yeah? Me, I'm

Speaker 4  32:39  
not the type to always ask, you know, I'm real shy with a couple. Yeah, I do, yeah, I need that, but yeah, so that would be another situation, but yes, so yes, I can say yes, and they came out their way immediately. So support, and it definitely helped a lot, especially with everything I had, because I came out through the prison with like certificates from left to right that came up with eight to 12 certificates, plus this certificate, and graduated within the 13 week program. And so so it everything just looked positive.

Unknown Speaker  33:12  
So yeah, I can say yes.

Speaker 3  33:13  
And so like Michael saying, Mike doesn't say anything. I think we did his letter to parole because, yup, he needed to have something to show why he was he was out there late. He went there for it.

Unknown Speaker  33:28  
So same thing with the job. No, I know Mike. It's

Unknown Speaker  33:32  
been going on sick or five months

Unknown Speaker  33:35  
now, a little longer than

Unknown Speaker  33:37  
that. I just found out he was looking for job. Yeah, you right?

Speaker 4  33:45  
I was taught that too close. Mom, don't get fat, but I don't like, Yeah, I like to work for mine, but yeah, I don't work. I know I got support. I didn't have that support growing up. So I didn't know how to ask why? Didn't know how to look in the right way. I don't like to have anything given to me. I like to earn it or work for it so I can proud of it, you know. So it's not like that in this, in this group, you know, I'm actually down and out. And it's actually people that's not gonna like, Hey, I did this for you. Do this for me later, you know, that type of energy or, or throw it in my face later after, like, I used to do this, but so I, you know, I was always afraid of that. So, like, I don't have that habit of, like, I work for it, you know, but, yeah, they definitely was the best resource. Definitely was a great resource,

Speaker 9  34:30  
you know, I asked you the same question. So, so did the nurturing gangsta help you with anything? Me with resources

Unknown Speaker  34:41  
for for my guys. This

Unknown Speaker  34:44  
ain't about your guys. So it's

Unknown Speaker  34:47  
about me, because I get to help my guys.

Unknown Speaker  34:49  
It's about you.

Speaker 7  34:53  
It's about you. Do not project this is about you. I can come back to you. David, no, all due respect, he did not. Us.

Speaker 3  35:02  
It helped me. It's it helped me create better community relationships. It's helped me create. It's always helped me the holiday season, you know, with the the fellowship dinners and and the gifts and stuff,

Unknown Speaker  35:21  
yeah, but it really

Speaker 3  35:24  
I can't. Just no way I could not. I mean, we got Jonathan, we got a church job, we got gift cards for for his work, belt diapers out the union holiday Christmas cards, those are the things that you know are helping me. I mean, without the capacity to to help somebody get to the next level, it's right, but this, those are the things

Unknown Speaker  35:55  
I'm gonna talk to you in a minute. You

Unknown Speaker  36:00  
kind of like diverted, but that's okay, but

Unknown Speaker  36:02  
I told you, was it for me,

Speaker 3  36:07  
and I did an avenue to facilitate and to and to make bonds with my guys and to

Unknown Speaker  36:18  
now I know Richard warned You about me, right? Yeah,

Speaker 3  36:21  
totally, okay, I'm scared of you the same way I'm scared of a little mama who gets on the box. Yeah, I'm not

Speaker 1  36:39  
trying to scare you good.

Speaker 5  36:45  
So now my reference put this in the reference of basketball. So when you walk in, when you're a good ball player, and you go to college, go to the NBA, you get drafted,

Unknown Speaker  37:02  
get a signed contract. Right

Speaker 5  37:06  
for me, with this rule, I didn't get a signed contract to come in. I was a walk, okay,

Unknown Speaker  37:14  
so as a walk on,

Speaker 5  37:18  
you know, I'm saying my talent itself be spoke volumes. Okay, so I didn't get referred to this as a college player would get referred to an NBA team or anything of that sort. I walked on, and it's going to for me. I think that my walk on contract is greater. It's going to be greater than any ball player that walked through the door that a team was looking at from college.

Speaker 3  37:54  
Now that right there, that's as smooth as it gets.

Unknown Speaker  37:58  
Yes, it is. But the question was, the question was, while

Speaker 1  38:02  
in this group or any other program related to family nurturing center, did they provide a referral to any other organization, any other program, yeah, third party. And was that successful? That's the question.

Unknown Speaker  38:17  
So my answer to that was No, and that's why I

Unknown Speaker  38:20  
No, no. I said you walked on, yes, right, that's why,

Speaker 5  38:23  
because my soul, the answer to your question is, because I'm still a walker and I'm learning so there was no reference. There was no nothing for me. I walked through that door. There was a head,

Unknown Speaker  38:37  
sit down, have a seat. And I sat down. Hey, did you register? Did I what are you interested with the horse?

Unknown Speaker  38:51  
Yes, but I wasn't referred here, though, that was the whole thing. No,

Unknown Speaker  38:56  
see, I walked in. Okay?

Speaker 7  38:58  
Everything he's done is a walk in, yeah, it was

Speaker 5  39:01  
just by chance, right? That I got off the bus. I had got a phone call from my son's mother. It was like, can you bring some can you bring some food forever? I said, Okay, fine. I brought it over. I would just so happen to get off the bus over on Water Street, and so let me walk over here and bring this food over here while I was here, because I was going to take into the house. And when I got here, it was a Thursday, around four o'clock, and Gary was sitting up there, and he said, bro, won't you stay for the room? Yeah, that's why, that's why I gave that analogy. No, no, that's good of a walk.

Speaker 4  39:33  
That's how I got invited. So I want to Garrett was in here. Well, not here, but I met Gary back on the streets, and he referred me to the group.

Unknown Speaker  39:45  
He was the one. I came in,

Speaker 5  39:47  
yeah, see, I like, I said, I just walked through the door. He was just sitting there. He was like, he won't you stay with the group tonight? At first, I was like, No, I got something to do. And then ask him, and I started talking. He was kicking because I grew up with gavid. I. Know, saying so we started talking. The time was like, ticking, ticking. And then at 530 I was like, working out here, damn, sit in and I never left. Okay, what they so, you know, I came, like I said. I walked on to this team and came in, became a, you know, a starter.

Speaker 8  40:20  
Show now. Show no. Okay. Well, thank you. Oh, I'm not sure. I'm trying to,

Unknown Speaker  40:30  
and that's okay if you're not sure. The question

Speaker 3  40:31  
again, so because I can do three in my head right here,

Speaker 8  40:35  
well, yes, you can't answer for him. I know that's why I'm saying.

Speaker 1  40:39  
Did this program, Yes, father standing in the gaps, or fat or father nurturing fathers program provide a referral to an outside source, a third party, and was, what was your experience with that?

Unknown Speaker  40:54  
Like, what type of third party I don't care

Speaker 1  40:58  
like to another organization for? I don't know,

Speaker 2  41:02  
I know, um, like, the way. So what I was thinking of is,

Unknown Speaker  41:06  
like, housing or something,

Speaker 2  41:09  
yeah, like, um, yeah. Did you just what's it called? Um, nah. It's just Dang. I just um. I need, I need a reminder. Give him a safety

Speaker 4  41:26  
bar you got the apartment

Speaker 2  41:34  
I was in that was I was at. That was something else. That was something else, like it wasn't from nobody. I went into a

Speaker 3  41:48  
Showtime. We referring back to the family

Unknown Speaker  41:54  
nurture center, yeah, so he's

Unknown Speaker  41:59  
and then I just get the reason why I'm just like,

Speaker 10  42:01  
you just like you explained it earlier. You get nervous. You forget. No, that wasn't take that up.

Speaker 2  42:13  
But this is I was saying, like, what? How I was originally thinking of answering that it was like, because I've been I get a lot of help from from from these guys, from standing in the gap, and family nurturing, yeah, like, I've got, I think it was Christmas. They called me. It was like, Hey, we're, we're giving out some Christmas stuff. So I still have, like, some, I still have, like, any gift cards. It was like a it was a bunch of stuff. So I was, how I was going to answer that originally is like something similar to how you said closed mouths don't get fed. No one doesn't want to help. Um, if they, if people see you willing to help yourself, then they'll help you. Something like that, like when people see you trying to help yourself, then they're gonna, then they're willing to help you. So I've always been ever since I ran into Dave and and then behind the walls, I've always just been, from there on, I've just been willing to change and help myself. So, you know, Dave plugged me into, yeah, family nurturers. And there's been so much resources that I inherited that I'm just like, Wait, where did that even come from? In a way, I just been, you know, just walking in, just like how Emma said, just trying to help myself, help myself. So that's why I was, like, it was hard for me, kind of the answer, because it's just things, are things I move so fast with the resources and the help I'm getting so but, um, family, nurturing, yeah, still living in the gap. They refer me to

Unknown Speaker  43:47  
very nice. Thank

Unknown Speaker  43:50  
you standing in the gap. You know

Speaker 6  43:54  
Garrett. He got me motivated. He invited me to the meeting, and then he also invited me to the, what was it, the black men advancement program, and I and I went there, and I met a lot of people, got a lot of cards, and, you know, people that I cannot get in touch with, and stuff like that. And then it just got me inspired to, like, start, like, Stop, like, stuff like, right now he said that I have an opportunity assigned to put here, that I can start my own meetings. And now I'm trying to start this investment thing, black movement thing. And like, I'm motivated to do that. And like, you know that's, that's what he that's really a different thing. Referred me to this person and that person to go here and go there, and I'm meeting all these people, and it's all coming together. Now I'm on a mission,

Speaker 8  44:56  
if you could improve this program, how would you improve. Of it

Unknown Speaker  45:01  
opening door for others in my same situation, bring them into the cycle. Man pass the knowledge. Man pass the skills to improve in life. Absolutely. Exposure, more exposure.

Speaker 3  45:21  
I think this is probably the best kept secret in the city, and the things that we do, I mean, the powerful relationships that are developed and made this needs to be front and center, because it really does. It really does change lives. It really does change lives, program, pinning in the open. How would I? How would I make it better?

Unknown Speaker  45:54  
Boots out the old streets,

Speaker 5  45:58  
brothers up ahead, to our fathers that are not standing in their gap with their kids. That's how I make it better, because they need us so being out there with my boots on the ground, I'm ready. I've been a soldier since I was nine. I've been in the streets since I was nine, so I know what it takes to be out there walking, so that's what I would that's how I make this better, put my boots out there on the ground. Thank you.

Speaker 2  46:35  
I agree with that. Wasn't Jesus being out there and exposing this to what's out there, and but my first thought was becoming a better version of myself to help make the program better, becoming working on myself more and more and more, and then also getting in, just exposing this out there For the young, especially, I feel like the young ones they needed out there. So that's it,

Unknown Speaker  47:07  
starting more programs,

Speaker 6  47:10  
more exposure, like they're talking bills, talking about me trying to stop like an a baby. Say more,

Speaker 2  47:23  
and I was just gonna say the young ones too. That's why I wanted to just real quick touch again on the young ones, like they for them to come to this group and then be able to have, like, if we get more young ones in this group, to have the conversations we're having, but just by with several of us, if we get more young ones in here, to share their story about them being like I remember when I was when I first had my son, and then I didn't have no one to talk to like that, before I got incarcerated. And then I started, you know, meeting new people day, one of them, and then, but before that, I was just talking to my friends who was going through the same things I was going through. We didn't know how to really help each other, because he's stressing about this, and we're dealing with our problems smoking, drinking or whatever, and so it's like I'm running into this cycle, and my mental health wasn't good. So if we get young ones that's going through, young men that's going through it out there that don't have no one to talk to that's turning into the drugs and the all of that, to get them in here, and then we can talk about sensitive things. And then that way, when they go home, to their environment, to their their their roles of being a dad or whatever it's like, they can lead with, they can lead with some, some richness, you know, to to handle whatever they're going through better. And then from there, we talked about even um, something for the young woman out here, for for single young dads. That's like even 17, because it's going on out there, and then, and then for them, for that, for the females, that's real young, that don't have no one there, if we can get a women's group similar, is just like what we got, and collide, and then, because the Young ones brain, absolutely the

Unknown Speaker  49:17  
young ones, the

Speaker 2  49:22  
young ones are up, they're up, they're up next. So it's like, it's like, if we just let that just if we're not helping them out, then it's like, what's going to happen? And then today, kids,

Speaker 4  49:35  
yeah, like, I do feel like this program is definitely a foundation, a tree that's a branch off into different subjects. As you were saying, I had other ideas too. It's not just drugs. It's where new era, new century, of new technology. You got people smoking us because

Speaker 4  49:56  
activate category with the drug solution to what it can lead to.

Speaker 4  50:07  
Yeah and confused Yeah, or just in general, not even just being fathers. There's other weird subjects, like we got young kids being bullied, and that's what leads to that toxic environment where you put fear someone, and then you see the outcome, especially if it's someone that was afraid, and now you think you can live off of putting fear in other people. So yeah, I definitely, like I said, this is definitely a foundation that can branch off into sort with the groups, with the females and everything. It could definitely make a big positive difference. Did

Speaker 8  50:37  
you want to add something? No? Sharp, yes. Okay, Mr. Snow, did you want to add something to what these gentlemen were talking about? Kudos.

Speaker 3  50:51  
I'm taking notes afterwards. No, I'm taking notes about the group Skin Center.

Speaker 7  51:03  
Is there anything else you all want to share

Unknown Speaker  51:08  
about the family nurturing center?

Unknown Speaker  51:13  
Because it's so this

Speaker 1  51:14  
is what I heard. And correct me if I'm wrong. Basically most of the services, or services are covered, and where they refer out to are accountable, like they do what they say they gonna do.

Speaker 3  51:37  
I tell the family veteran center for a lot of stuff, and so knowing, knowing that when I call, there is going to be a response or a referral, like we had

Unknown Speaker  51:55  
some stuff for

Speaker 3  51:57  
and we were having that conversation about family court, and I ain't gonna do that. I call Prince Rogers. Rogers. I even know what's going on. I'm sitting in nurture, family nutrient center. John walks in. Miss Rogers walk in. I'm talking to everybody. That's right, and that's how it goes. And the thing is, is that I know that that's going to take place, yes, when, whenever I make that call, I know that there's going to be that response. The other thing is going to get people's training to be facilitated. Some people have done two and three programs and even facilitated. Yet I ain't even, I'm sorry for celebrating. Wow, that's

Unknown Speaker  52:45  
a lot of shame. He's not even saying anything

Speaker 3  52:50  
about that we get in the last group

Unknown Speaker  52:56  
facilitators. Oh, yeah, I think

Speaker 7  52:58  
so, because I know that. Why can I pull up?

