Speaker 1  0:00  
We're going to record this conversation. We're at 200 voting Avenue street streets the other side of Dorchester, where there's a lot of avenues. And we're going to record this conversation. We're not going to upload it to fora. We're going to keep it on Google Docs. Okay, so if you can introduce yourself and say you consent to being recorded, that would be great, because I'm lucky.

Speaker 2  0:27  
My name is said that Cruz and I do consent be recorded.

Speaker 3  0:34  
I'm Penelope. I consent to be recorded. Thank you. I'm

Unknown Speaker  0:37  
Shakira and I consent to be recorded. I'm

Unknown Speaker  0:40  
Anna Ravi and I consent to be recorded.

Speaker 1  0:50  
How are you feeling today? Feeling peachy, great. Penelope alive, Oh, very nice. Oh, very nice, Chiquita, great. I'm feeling full. Thank you. Okay, great. Here is the first question. Let's see, could you describe a specific time when you felt really supported by your community in Boston? So this is just about you yourself. Take a minute. We're gonna start with Celia, and then we'll go around the room

Unknown Speaker  1:38  
a time with the first time a time, a time

Speaker 1  1:42  
doesn't have to be the first time, but if the first time was that profound, you can use that one as well.

Speaker 2  1:48  
I'll say when I do you know for Independence Day back home, right? They there is a day that we celebrate here in Boston, and it is beautiful to see the support from that community in Boston to allow us to have our day celebrate, feel celebrated, and not be judged, so we can show who we are, the best of us, all the culture that comes With each of us. So that was really good, because it comes from the politicians. You know, they're there, they show up that they from different cities, Representative from different cities, and they're just celebrating with that. So it feels really good. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:38  
Don't get me down. Um, down.

Speaker 3  2:43  
For me, it's more personal. I was a teen mom, and I feel that I got a lot of support from the community as I was raising my kids, especially when they were pre teens teams where there were a lot of people that would guide me in way to go to get vouchers for after school programs, summer programs, summer camps. So in that sense, I feel that that that's one of the most important times that resembles that support from the community.

Unknown Speaker  3:22  
Good talk. I The

Speaker 4  3:26  
something that I would like to share is when I had my daughter, and I didn't have many connections, and luckily, actually it was a staff member for family nurturing incentive that like approached me, and she got me to know a lot of programs in my area, which is also Brighton. So I was, I would say, to be part of communities that are like, going to play groups, community events that I didn't know, so I felt it was a

Unknown Speaker  4:05  
great feeling to be part of that

Speaker 1  4:09  
neighborhood. Thank you. And I have been

Unknown Speaker  4:15  
my brother was murdered in 2011

Speaker 5  4:18  
and when he was murdered, it was amazing to see people who you consider to be gang or street affiliated, put whatever they needed to put aside to come together for my brother and kind of figure out like what happened, as well as just the community in general, because it was Mozart, and that's not the nicest Street to walk down or be on, so it was just kind of nice to see everybody put their stuff aside as a community and just kind of come together for this sense of sad to violence that kind of happened for our family. Thank you, Lupita. I.

Speaker 6  5:00  
Well, as I'm listening to everybody, I've been reflecting and I don't, at least at this moment, I can recall a time when I first supported by my by the community, especially if I look at it in personal way. Ironically, this morning, I was talking to somebody about why I focus so much on sharing resources and talking to people about where to get stuff, where to go, because I never had that and I came, I can't record in any instance where I needed something from the community that I found support.

Unknown Speaker  5:44  
Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you for sharing

Speaker 1  5:46  
that. I am going to ask you all to talk about your journey to Boston, like what brought you here. If you're not from from Boston, take a minute and think about that. I'm not from Boston either. Sometimes it's a hard question.

Speaker 2  6:07  
Setting reason why I'm here definitely is because of the political issues back home. Safety and freedom is something that it's has been ripped off from our life, and we end up here. So we came, my parents had to let home, and they came here. We're supposed to be here for two years, and that was like almost more than 35 years ago. Are you comfortable sharing where home is? Nicaragua. Thank you

Speaker 3  6:46  
for me. The first time that I came here, I was seven, and I was here for a couple of years, then moved back to the main park public and then came back from back of my mind. I was so always thinking, you know, I would like to go back and leave in United States permanently, go to school there. I go to college. So when the time came, I talked to my parents, and my mom came with me, and my brother, and so I we moved here when I was 15. So I did my last year of high school here in a couple of years of college.

Unknown Speaker  7:32  
Did you say where home was?

Speaker 1  7:35  
Check that Shakira, I'm originally from Columbia,

Speaker 4  7:42  
and I came here a few years ago. That's okay. The purpose that I decided to come here is I joined the Au Pairs program for nannies. So that's how I came. My plan was to stay for a year, but then I had the chance to extend it. Then I'd switch my visa, and here I am.

Unknown Speaker  8:10  
Thank you.

Speaker 5  8:14  
I was born here, but I was sent back to Dominican Republic when I was three months, and then I didn't come back into the space until I was six. I'm

Unknown Speaker  8:26  
here because

Speaker 5  8:29  
I'm assuming this is where my family wanted to be. They had migrated from the Dominican Republic already. I don't think my mom planned me. I just happened, and then she had to send me back while she continued to build whatever she needed to build, so that when I came back, there was, there was something, some type of foundation. But I, I would say my our family, brought us here for a better future, because whatever was going on in Dominican Republic at the time, I know, wasn't the best politics over there aren't the best, even now, but I know they were a lot worse back in the day. Thank you.

Speaker 6  9:11  
I'm also from Dominican Republic. I came here, like three years, for 30 years, and I believe the reason why I came first, my mother was the first one who came in looking for better future for us, knowing that, according to our economic strategy, Dominican Republic, she didn't think we had a future Going to college or building a career, or anything like that. So she came in first, and I moved to the United States when I was 18 years old,

Unknown Speaker  9:50  
and again, looking for for for better future. But that,

Speaker 6  9:54  
as you grow up and start thinking about stuff like that, it was. Ever really like my decision always brought my my mother brought me here. But the goal was that to give us a chance opportunity to become, to become somebody you know, to have opportunity to go to school if you wanted to go to school and be able to have a better life.

Unknown Speaker  10:24  
All right, so we've talked about where you're from.

Speaker 1  10:28  
A good story about feeling supported. Now we're going to change a little bit. Can you talk about times where I

Speaker 1  10:44  
you didn't feel supported, and what happened?

Speaker 2  10:52  
I think that it's easier, because there's plenty of times that I have not feel supported, like from being in high school, being in young adult work related, it's it's a lot against who I am as a person or as a woman, as a Latino, not being from this country, not being from This race, is every day we feel like that. We, you know, I feel like I go to places and they don't see me as one of them. You know, I don't belong here. Let's start with that. So I don't belong here. I shouldn't have the same opportunities. Because No, you know, this is, this is not where, if this country was not for me, you know, that's basically how I feel when, when this, this situations happen. So you you know, I got the chance to see it, even in school with some teachers, you know, growing up and went to middle school and high school here, just see who were the teachers and the way they it was. So went to East Boston high, and it's Boston high, it was a lot of like, all about Irish and Italians at that time, and that's all the attention was to them. All the resources were for them and for us. It's like, why are we in? We just taken from them. Then I moved to the area, proxy what I still am 30 years later, in the same in the same place, and I then it's against like, now we're talking about the community around feeling like Latinos are also embedding their space, and you try to get a job, and it's the same thing, right? It's like, no, it's like, you don't just pick that music with an accent that it is very heavy. You're not you don't look you're from here. And even when you get the job, you gonna get the lower level job. To get in the higher positions, you have to put up with a lot. You have to dance their, you know, their their rhythm, and just wait and wait and wait. And then you see people, just especially white people, coming to the job, new to the jobs, fresh, free college, and they now they're your boss, right? So that it's something that doesn't matter. Sometimes you feel like doesn't matter. The experience doesn't matter. The knowledge. Truth is you know they don't see us you deserve.

Speaker 1  13:56  
Thank you. I can't say nothing yet. I have to, have to wait till I turn off the recording for me,

Unknown Speaker  14:04  
go ahead, Penelope, your time for

Unknown Speaker  14:06  
me. I think it was recently

Speaker 3  14:10  
when I came here, I came to an area that there were lot of Latinos in Jamaica Plain, and there was still people, obviously that did not want to give you the support, but there were more people that were rooting for you and Oh, you just got here. Let's, let's get you into yourself classes or things like that. And then at my jobs, it was always within the Latino community, so I learned to reach out for those resources, to provide those resources for people that didn't know about them or just got here. But about five years ago, seven years ago. I got a job into a lab, and I was the only Latina there. So there, I could definitely see there were a lot of different cultures, and everyone had, like, their own little group, and everyone was pulling for their group and for their benefits, and I felt that I didn't belong. So it was it was tough. Sometimes I feel that I can't fully empathize with a lot of people, because I have not been through those situations, but during that time, I was like, Okay, this is what people really go through. Yeah,

Speaker 4  15:59  
for me, it's been a bit different. For me, it was very difficult, like the first few years that I was here, I was young, and I was living, actually in Brookline, which is an area that definitely not for me, but even though my hosting family, they were very nice, extremely nice Jewish family, but still, I felt that I was like in another planet, something like that. I didn't know about, like the Latino communities. I think I was like, four or five years when I learned about East Boston and all these Colombian restaurants, I was in heaven. When I went for those years, I will always remember, but then I mean thinking by little, things started to get better, and I'm here, my parents, my siblings, they are all back home. They would never come here. Like to leave, and they good there. So I was feeling lonely and for some time. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  17:07  
Can you reiterate the question

Speaker 1  17:11  
times where you didn't feel supported in your community? It's hard, right? It's a heavy cop. It's a heavy question.

Speaker 7  17:20  
I so

Speaker 5  17:25  
I guess right now, I currently don't have insurance because I make too much money, which is like flabbergasting to me, because the too much money I make can't even pay my rent, right? So I have no insurance, and then the support that they give you when they're like, Oh, you have no insurance, but you also can't have no insurance because you'll get times during taxes, that's right. Oh, but let's find you a cheaper plan. And then they tell you the plan, and they're like, um, 250 a month, and you're like, 250 How am I supposed to I'm telling you that the income that I had, that you're saying is a maximum income for your insurance is not enough, and now I'm asking you, in which way can you support because I cannot afford that, there is no support. And so I sit there and wonder, like, I've opted out right now to be like, I won't take insurance. Then I'll sit there and I'll pay whatever you guys want me to pay for tax. But I think about other families who genuinely, really can't go without insurance. And I'm like, what about if it's a family who has a kid who has asthma, or somebody who has a child who has diabetes, and it's like emotional diabetes, where you need your insulin at all time, if you need a stack, and then they they don't have insurance, and they also don't have 250 to pay a month. How are they supposed to survive on their family. I'm a single person, so for me, I'm like, I'll figure it out, right? Like, whatever. But like, I think about other families, and how are, how are we supposed to, like, survive, essentially, and

Unknown Speaker  18:56  
how are these families?

Speaker 5  18:59  
I don't know. And then, and then, there's no resources around that, right? Because if you don't call, if you call mass help, there's no other resource other than mass health that you can call. And in order to qualify for those resources, you essentially have to have no job. You have to be in the most bottom of the bottom. It's like, you have to be like homeless on the street. And it's just like, Why does they have to take that for people to get the support that they need, because even though people have jobs, we still need support. It's not like we're living on a mansions and all this stuff like but I feel very unsupported right now, and I'm also wondering about all those other families who don't have insurance and who's supporting them and their needs.

Unknown Speaker  19:36  
The same boat, sister, same boat.

Unknown Speaker  19:41  
Julius, I mean,

Speaker 6  19:54  
realize that I didn't make the connection. That's how.

Speaker 6  20:07  
Anything I hate, just the fact that it comes to my mind, I hate it.

Speaker 6  20:17  
So for me again, I said very a personal level where it was about 15 years ago when my daughter, or my oldest daughter, was going through extreme episode. We have mental health when we first find out that she was having suicidal thoughts. I knock every door that I know, and I bother I'm a pain in the neck. I'm gonna get what I need. Like, it won't be because I'm I'm not trying that I'm not gonna get what I need. So I knock every door that I know, trying to find support for her, like, with a medical school everywhere, and to me, everything was like a tenant. And that's when I realized that mental health in this country is totally underestimate like there is no support for people they have mental health, especially for you, because a lot of a lot of the mental health behaviors, it can be confused with acting out, because you are a teenager, and it's not until later on that you realize that Many, many behaviors, they are, they we can get confused by, oh, he's a teenager, and he's just acting up. It's actually cried out for hope. So I remember that I talked to the pediatrician. I talked he was even he was already going to therapy. I talked to her school, and there was not much support. There was no more support like and also even for me, because I was like, I don't really know what the heck I was going to do. I was I felt like I needed it, because she was missing a lot of schools, and I felt like I needed it to be home when she was home to ensure that she didn't hurt herself. But I wasn't able to stay home. I couldn't afford to stay home. I didn't get the support from my job to take some time to be home while all of that was going on, even just for the for the in the beginning, right? So and again, I knocked a lot of doors, and everything was dead end. I feel like it was me, myself, and I on this, and I decided by making changes and a lot of sacrifices, things that kind of like put me behind in some aspect of my life, because I wanted to make sure that I was there to support my daughter and and that was a very tough time. That was a very tough time because I were, I totally abandoned like I was. That was the moment that I said, people don't care about people to happen to hope. I mean, the system don't care about mental health. They can say whatever they say on TV, but helping children sucks. Find a therapist or psychiatric is a nightmare. Find a room where they need to be hospitalized. Literally, is like good luck with that, you know. So it was, it was the time where I was, I I saw a lot of lupus in the

Unknown Speaker  23:50  
health insurance, in school system.

Speaker 6  23:54  
Every war in my life, they have to do with the community, like, the way people supposed to get supporter i i to music. All of that is a lie. Everything that they advertise is still so like there is no support over there for people they have the dealing with mental health, not only for the person who's dealing with the mental health, but also for the family. Thank you.

Speaker 1  24:18  
I'm sorry. My daughter who has mental health issues, just text me. Okay, sorry. Um, okay, so okay, what are things that you worry about daily? And if you can provide a little bit of an example, that would be great,

Unknown Speaker  24:39  
then that you worry about daily, friends,

Unknown Speaker  24:44  
I worry about daily.

Speaker 8  24:47  
This sounds like my doctor's appointment yesterday. You know that's okay, because mine was like this on Monday, yep.

Unknown Speaker  24:54  
So I will say definitely

Unknown Speaker  24:58  
the violence in the neighborhood. That it's real,

Speaker 2  25:04  
even getting out from work, we'll never know, like we know that this is a very, very active crime, wise area, social violence, for sure, definitely finances. You know, it's real money, having job stability, because we know as working in a nonprofit with the money, it's not a lot in that a lot of the positions are just whatever, whenever the money it's there for

Unknown Speaker  25:45  
do, I think for me,

Speaker 2  25:50  
making sure that my daughter it's okay and and that she is she's getting the support that she needs from myself and from that community to kind of serve this stage of her life. She's 23 so it's a lot going on. So yeah, like her safety, her like everything that comes with that, and it's easier sometimes for when we get older, my case and my age, you know, like I went through that, and I know how to navigate that now, right? And I can advise, but I remember when I was her age, how difficult and confusing and lonely you can feel, but those are the same issues from back then, still now, the same issues. I'm just a little bit wiser when I and they don't like that kind of pick my bottles and go with that. But same, same issues. But, you know, violence, money, jobs, I would not say how. Thank God. Housing is not an issue for me, on my house, and I'm good, but um, so for me, it's like, I only have one daughter. Maybe I will leave my house to the one daughter, right? But if I had more than one in in this neighborhood, it's like, how they're gonna do it. So I don't that is not a concern for me, but it's, I know it's not a reality for everybody, anybody else around me,

Speaker 1  27:22  
when you say violence, what type of violence are you referring violence,

Unknown Speaker  27:26  
gun violence? Yeah, thank you. Penelope,

Speaker 3  27:34  
for me would be the same as still in terms of violence in the neighborhood. I was not here the last time that something happened, but it kind of woke me up to say, because I'm always like in la la land every time I come in and out. But that really made me realize I need to be more aware of my surroundings, and I need to, you know, make sure that what is going on around me when I'm around here and I still go out and walk down the street and buy food or whatever, but it really was a wake up call for me. The other thing now that I take a lot of time during my day to think about it, but I definitely think about it every day is, as the elections are approaching, what's going to happen after, what would be, you know, the end result and, and what, yeah, how, what's going to be the atmosphere, and not only here, but in the country, right? Because that could lead to, then, you know, like with food or jobs, jobs being sent back home. Yeah, check it

Speaker 4  28:51  
for me. Something that it really like, terrifies me is the gun violence at schools you send your child. In my case, I have a teenage year daughter, and every morning, you bring them to the bus and stuff, you send them, bless them, and just hoping for the best. But it's always like my head. I shouldn't be lunatic, but it's a reality, unfortunately that we are facing nowadays, and something else that kind of getting my way is economy, inflation, how things are going, and also elections come in. What is going to happen, not only in America, around the world, actually, because if you can see the Middle East is very dangerous right now, what is going to happen? That's why I think Israel. I know people who live in Israel, though it's very scary. Thank you.

Speaker 5  29:54  
I On a personal note, I feel like where I live I'm currently. Only concerned about my safety. I feel like they don't take it serious. I feel like because of what's currently going on on my side in methadone where I live now, they barricaded all of my side, so now they can't sit there, so now they're just moving up and up and up and up and up the block. So now they're just all hanging out where I live. And so when you tell, like, the property manager and stuff like that, they're like, yeah, we'll put security out there. And you're like, okay, and then you come home at 10 o'clock and you're like, there is a whole bunch of people on my ramp where I'm supposed to walk up to get into my building, where security between that and finances. I'm scared that I'm gonna get evicted this year, because I am at a point where I'm like, Well, my rent is triple what I make. And was like, oh, go, go, downgrade. I'm like, even the downgrading rent is triple what like a studio is $2,000 Yeah. I'm like, Yeah, okay, sounds great. On a community based thing, though, I'm really worried about these nobody supporting them. I coming from my last position was a dean of students. I had to take a step back, because as much as I want to support them. I cannot save the world with those kids. And it seems like as a community of educators, they are trying. But when you have educators who are just not willing to help the youth that they don't have to, they don't get paid to separate fights, and they don't get paid to therapies or be mentors. They don't get paid for that. They just get paid to teach. And some people literally just come in to teach, and they don't want to be that person for the youth. And I feel like I feel bad, you know, like when I was a kid, not to say that Boston was the greatest, but like, there was after schools, there was homework clubs, there was sports, there was like, I don't know, what is it? Double Dutching camp, or something like, literally, people made up anything. We were still playing manhunt. We were still riding bikes. Like these kids ride bicycle shoe at you that they that's why they know how to ride a bike, and they don't even ride a bike. They're riding mopeds with no license, no nothing. They're just risking their whole lives up and down the street. But then I don't think people ask themselves, like, why they have no resources. Kids can't go to the Boys and Girls Club because it costs them $250 a week. Those parents cannot afford that. Yeah, thank you. Nonprofits cannot give out memberships to the entire Dorchester Geneva area. I wish we could. But how can how do you expect a parent to put a kid in an after school that they can't afford? And imagine parents have 1234567, kids. Now it's not just one, so it's like, we don't the community doesn't give the parents a break. They do this like, oh, you can sign up for financial aid for camp, and they take off, like, $20 a week. And you're like, Okay, well, what about the other two kids? Like, I got the first one and now I have the other two. Can I get nothing? And so I'm just like, we can't be mad at the kids were going to the street, it's all they have. Even the little girls, like, the little girls are going to the street. And when I see that, I'm like, Oh, they think this is norm, like, they think it's a norm to hang out with the boys and have guns in their bags. And I'm just like, you're going to be in jail in two years, and it's just getting younger and younger, and I'm really concerned that our future is doomed, because, like you said, my I have six little brothers. They all go to Brooke, but when I tell you I'd be in there, I'd be texting my mom, like, everybody good in the middle of the day, she's like, Yeah, why? I'm like, Oh, I'm just, you know, just checking, because you never know. Like, I've only had one scare incident with Brooke and my siblings, but that's all it takes. One scare incident, and that was a knife incident. I was like, next time, you never know what's gonna happen. So for me, I'm just like, what do we do? How do we help them? But if we don't have any resources outside to help them with, how do we expect these kids to want to come to after school? They can't, if they can't afford it. So that's my only concern. Outside. I wish I can make like, a community center that was just free for all kids and parents can just like, but like, it's impossible. Like, nonprofits really do a lot of work, but in reality, we don't really get the amount of funding, yeah, that we would need to do those type of projects to cover everything so and everything so and everything

Speaker 1  34:21  
is restricted. And there's and there's nonprofits who decide who they want to work with.

Unknown Speaker  34:27  
And that's another thing

Speaker 5  34:30  
where the community, and it's like, okay, only for right, only for maybe the African American community, or maybe only for the Latino community. And even so, like, I feel like African American, Latino and all colored people go insane. I don't care what anybody says. We all go in the same boat. We're all color. We all white people look at us all the same. Oh, yeah. So I feel like it's also really funny, like when you said earlier that when you walk into a neighborhood and you're like, Oh, they're looking at me like the outsider, but in reality, we're all the same. Yeah. Hmm, yeah, you're black, I'm Spanish, I speak a different language, but we're really all the same, everybody else, yeah, so Let's support each other, rather than make it a secluded thing. So, but yeah, I'm worried they're supposed to be our future, and our future looks like, I don't know. I'm like, we're gonna be walking down the street and they're gonna be like, Yeah, we're gonna be just like, it's gonna be a norm. Like, that's what I think about when I think about when I think about our future. And then when people be like, Oh, you're not going to have kids. I'd be like, Have you been seeing the stuff that's been happening down the street? No, there's no way I can bring a child into something like this. Like and

Speaker 1  35:32  
community based organizations actually get to pick what type of not just the age, but if they don't want to work with hard to reach youth, youth who are at that age like they can go left or they can go right. They like, I work for an organization who refuses to work with hard to reach so under a different funding stream that I was

Speaker 9  35:57  
able to secure, I work with them I can go

Speaker 6  36:15  
so so it is funny that Anna Ravi was talking about because I to that's basically what I wrote. When I think about the community, right? I think about the lack of resources in the neighborhood, and it's not because there is no resources, it's because they are not connected. That's to me, when I got to this country, and after my kids were a little bit bigger, that I kind of started navigating a little bit more, that I found that there was, they are, you know, nonprofit agency. They can help you with this, or can provide you these resources, I was like, I've never had any of that. I even started asking, even when I got here, how long a family never doing centers being around it was like, how come I never heard about it, right? So I think about other lack of resources, they are for, especially for this neighborhood, and supplies, like, just like food, like baby stuff, like, I get cold all the time. People looking for diapers, looking for clothes. I had a phone call the other day from mom. She had three kids, only one of them the month, the one that is one month, or was the only one born in this country, so mom and the rest of the kids are undocumented, educating snap, but you only getting child. And I was like, okay, you know, in in and you say, Can you help me with food? Like, well, we don't have a food pantry here, but I can mail you the full pantry list around the neighborhood. So you can go, say you can go more than one. You don't have to take one. But a lot of people, they don't know that, you know. So that is the lack of resources and support, especially like, like we were saying about for youth, right? And youth are like we here. We focus up for little kids, that's our that's our outline. That's what we have to stay right? But then, if you think about it, there is a lot of again, I was talking about that earlier today. There is a lot of support for little kids, which I love, right? Because we didn't have early child education before, and all the money that the state is the city is putting for like UPK, for program like ours, our playgrounds, and all of that, that's amazing, because we know the importance of nutrient that brain when they little. But I'm wondering what happened? What's happening with the youth? What happening with the 11 years old that is being getting is living one stage of the life to go into another. And it's very confusing, because you are not a little shower anymore, but you are not really a teenager yet, and then the whole hormones play a role on it, just like he was saying, I don't, I don't play. And that makes me. Irritates me when I hear people judging and criticizing teenagers. It really just pissed me off, because I always ask, what kind of support are you giving to teenagers? Forget about the community. What kind of support are you giving to your child? Right? If there is no of the school program, is there is no art like there is no art at school anymore, right? That we know the benefit of we. Are doing music and all of that is there is no youth groups, any other support that they say used to happen around here before. What are they going to do? What are these kids? Are they going to do? Because remember this, parents in Boston, most of them are having to have two dogs being able to live in Boston so they are not home. They are trusting, hoping, begging, until the kids will be safe and they'll be home. But teenagers, still teenagers. They want friends. That's the biggest influence for teenagers, socializing their friends. So what is the support that the community is giving to those family? I remember, like a few months ago, there was something happening in Boston, and there was a post in the Boston Globe said the police said we are not babysitters. They were calling parents because they are nobody, basically tend to your job. It's like really. So what happened with those parents? They have to work all the time when school in a 230 and the parents doesn't leave work until three o'clock before they could stay after school. They could go into a into a

Unknown Speaker  41:22  
group. I don't know exactly how they call those groups that you do at school.

Speaker 6  41:27  
You know, they could do all of that. So they, you know, you taking all of that from parents and for the kids, and then you're gonna be saying, we are no babysitters. And then the friend in Boston is how much now, and the harp insurance is, how much is how much so? What is the hope? What's we I mean, any. That's why I always get really I and I cannot find another word and getting pissed off when I hear grown ups judging and criticizing teenagers the way that we do, because, in my opinion, they've been abandoned by everybody, even their parents.

Unknown Speaker  42:09  
I agree. I think

Speaker 6  42:11  
they be abandoned. That's why, when I feel about the community, that's the thing that I feel every day about, again, about the youth, how are they going know? How is this world is going to endow in a few years, if things don't change? The

Speaker 1  42:29  
question I have asked for the last my daughter's 31 we've been here since she was three. So 29 years, I've asked this question continuous. How Richard AM? I meant this one question continuously, before you take the city wants to take care of the kids. They have all these programs, supposedly, city takes care of the kids. They still have to go home to the parents. I was literally so how do you want the programs to work if you're not supporting the parents that too, because you can't support the kid without supporting the parents. It's a circle. It has to work this way. It can't work this way. It has to work it's the question that I ask all the time, and you forget that parents aren't parents first,

Speaker 5  43:15  
they're themselves, and so when they're there, it is. And I I had to learn that when I was working in a school, I would talk to parents and be like, sheesh, where's your common sense, right? Like, that was my, yeah. Like your 11 year old is coming in smelling like we he looked verbatim. He told me my mom was smoking in the car, and I'm looking at him like your mom was smoking in the car on your way here, and then sent you into school and thought what you was gonna smell like roses, like, I just right, and then I call mom, and I'm like, Hey, like, you're not in trouble. I just want to let you know for next time, just, you know, maybe smoke outside the car, or wait till you drop him off to do it. And mom's like, Yeah, well, I do that with him every morning. And right? And then something hit me. Goes, go look at their file. How old is mom? Mm, hmm. Mom's 24 Yeah. I'm 32 Yeah. And I'm like, 24 He's 11. She was a baby. This is a baby raising a baby, and probably didn't get no support the whole time. And then in her mind, she was like, He's grown.

Speaker 1  44:13  
He's 11, yeah, where did the system fail her? He's gone. She's 11.

Speaker 5  44:17  
And you hear parents nowadays literally telling a 10 year old. Oh, you're grown. Like you're grown. You can go by yourself. I'm like, He's 10. He's not grown. He should not be walking down the street to go home by himself. He should not be going home and making his own meal at 10. Granted, I was doing it, but Dominicans do it very different Spanish. Raise their kids way too fast, if you ask me, yeah, because I tell my mom all the time, you guys raise kids like minions. You guys want us to be cooking and cleaning and doing all this stuff, but in reality, it's like, we're kids, yeah. So when you have a parent who was 14 and had a baby, or was 12 and had a baby, and now they're 2224 and they're dealing with a sixth, seventh grader, and she's like, Oh, well, he's grown like, you know, I spoke with him around the house. You shouldn't, though, and I don't know why you haven't been to. Forward it to the point to be told, Hey, babe, it's it's okay that you do that, but you know, you should not be smoking around your 11 year old

Speaker 1  45:06  
son, because we live in a system that doesn't support parents, yeah, because

Unknown Speaker  45:10  
she doesn't start there, right? We

Speaker 2  45:15  
know we try to think a little bit more, a little bit deeper. It's like finances play economic plays a huge part, right? Because it's like, why we're not spending time with the kids? Well, it is real when say, like, we have to work and, um, and I know that's not excuse that everybody can use, but, but it is real for a lot of us, right? We have to go to work. And if there is nothing else around that that is gonna be there for us, like, if I gonna get, if I'm, for example, myself, I never, never qualify for any benefit in here. Never, I was always doing, like, I always say $1 more. Never, never qualified for anybody, but I always had to work. I always had to pay insurance for me, my child, always had to do all those things, and so I couldn't. And what I had at that time, I was able to get support for the after school and the before school, right. But then listen, before and after school. My daughter was to school all day, right? We didn't really have the time to be mom and dad and mom enrolled the family relationship. I will pick up my daughter, no go home, go back to work, and I will stay with her three nights a week into like 8:30pm so we left the house at 7am we come back at 8:30pm she was school, I was working, and then we went to work. We did that for 10 her first 10 years in life. That's That's why she didn't know how to interact with kids her age, because she was always a grown up, because that's what she knew, because mom had to do that, right? And so it's not like I didn't want to, but it was either leaving her by herself or somewhere else or somewhere else that who knows, right? I have to bring her with me, because I didn't have anything else. I was no support. When we talk about support, I didn't have any more support for me. Housing must help expensive before even worse, these days, all the programs that it will benefit the family will support and help are very expensive. Like you said, we'll have to be making zero money in order to get that help. And again, I only have one.

Speaker 6  47:39  
It is, it is scary. I mean, I tend what I was realizing as we were going around, so, like, literally, I'm not being, like, the most thing that works me all the time, all the time, I know like me really are more, a lot more about the community, even those things they have to do with me, like, one thing that, like, my daughter live here, she lived in New York, but I know it's like that everywhere, like, be able to have the resources for like therapist or medication and all of that is really hard everywhere. And know a lot of people know how to get to get it and even, and then one like, because I know that happens everywhere when you are let's say, if you're getting a snap right and you need to reapply, or there is something going on that you have to submit paperwork, sometimes you have to be like, behind the people that's working in the department so they can pay attention to your case. It's ironic because I know about two cases like that in the last few months where they lost the their SNAP and they send the application. They send everything they were supposed to do, but the person who was supposed to take care of it quick, no, they just didn't, oh, I didn't see you. Send me the information, you know, and it's like, Oh, my God. And then you, like, you say, Ari, like, you go around myself and you see what's going on. And it breaks my heart to see people that are living in that situation. Because I I always said, we all can be in that position, because we all can be in we all can be in that position. And I'm just grateful that I'm not, and I pray to the Lord that he heard me and her my kids, especially my kids, are young, that some things are now illegal in my my eyes should not be. You know what I mean that to me is I like it to opening a door for some of the stuff. So I'm always worried, worry about that, about the support the family and then the homeless, like they kicking it out of that. Up where they are in massa, but they moving into the neighborhoods now. They actually go inside the neighborhoods. They are in Dorchester neighborhood, yeah, my company neighborhoods. They are everywhere. And it seems to me like they this is a situation that the government don't know how to deal with. I don't know what they're gonna have to do, to be honest with you, because it's it's sad for them, but it's also affecting the neighborhoods. It's also affecting those they have in apartment, because you never know the condition that they can be. You know, especially if you're lady right walking down the street a certain time of night, it's scary. Even if nothing happened to you. You scared, you feel intimidated. Yeah.

Speaker 1  50:48  
So in the PM, taking track of time. Well, I have one last question, and it's, it's, it's a different type of question, as I'm gonna set for one minute. You could speak for one minute, if you can, if you're still here in 10 years, would you imagine Boston's community would be like? What would it look like?

Unknown Speaker  51:09  
What do you would like to see? Yeah, like. So imagine a Boston

Speaker 1  51:11  
community 10 years from today that is fully accessible and inclusive. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  51:18  
can you paint a picture of that? And how does that make

Speaker 8  51:20  
you feel? So this is in a positive in the future. Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  51:26  
if that's even possible,

Speaker 5  51:27  
are we going in order? I don't care how you guys do it, I'll go first. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  51:32  
this was a free for all. So

Speaker 5  51:36  
I don't know if anybody has ever worked for the city of Cambridge, but the City of Cambridge genuinely loves their community, and by that, I mean they share Wi Fi amongst the entire city. All community centers are free for all kids in Cambridge. If you live in Cambridge, you are allowed to go to any of them for free, and all their resources is essentially for them. They have one high school. Their high school is a vocational high school, and everybody who goes who grows up in the City of Cambridge essentially goes to that high school. I say that to say that I feel like Boston is so separated that I wish they would come up with a unified plan like that. I think I would love to see Boston be more together and provide more things for their community, because their community deserves it. Not that Wi Fi is a big thing, but like it is providing Wi Fi. Yeah, it is a big thing for some people, because it's expensive to do homework, to do everything, right? So providing Wi Fi for the entire city, that would be awesome. How many. Like, I don't know, cable bills would be lighting for some families. You know, having one high school for the entire city might also work, because I think it takes away from the Division of gangs and all this. Like, oh, because you live over there and I live over here, and that's what, whatever. Don't get me wrong. Cambridge also got their little one too, but it at some point, as you get older, and you realize, like, I've been to school with these people my entire freaking life, whether it was Elementary, whether it was middle or whether it was high school, I know them some way, somehow, because we all connected, because all of our resources are provided just to us. And I think that brings it togetherness, and then it comes with community. And so I would just really like Boston to be a real community and actually, really hold each other down. And I wish the city, the city officials in Boston, would actually come into the community and do some of the work, because I know that it looks good in pictures and Instagram, and that they be there and they take pictures, but like in reality, they really don't know what the heck is going on. You're so funny.

Speaker 1  53:38  
I don't care. Yeah, I was at a meeting this Monday. We can take freedom, but no, so

Speaker 5  53:44  
you could say that you was here. No. Like, what did you do today, besides talk and introduce yourself? Like, are you identifying? What are the things that we need to do moving forward now? Like, thank you for coming by now. What about the youth later? That's all next.

Speaker 6  54:00  
Yeah, and to elaborate a little bit on what you said, as I feel kind of the same way. Again, I know Boston is very big, so I don't know if having one school will actually, you know, but for me, it's like, it doesn't matter where you you live in Boston, but the school have the same resources. All they have the same resources. And to me, appearance is something major. Like it just drive me crazy. I love seeing crazy, by the way, the difference between school just how they look like school in Dorchester in a school in another city. Oh yeah, and I'm gonna put this example. My oldest daughter went to Boston like in school her first four years.

Unknown Speaker  54:53  
My oldest daughter

Speaker 6  54:55  
that school is beautiful. You go there since are amazing. My youngest daughter went to Boston like Academy. When I went to Boston line Academy for the first time, being already in Boston line school. Even though there is a lot of bad stuff about Boston School, there is not being said, because money to me that school should just be like demented, you know. But anyway, that's another story. To see two schools, they are basically both called exam school, two of the best three school, high school, in Boston, and to see the difference the resources that the kid from Boston lines school have in the resources that are missing. Boston line Academy,

Speaker 3  55:47  
part of the difference, I'm sorry to interrupt you, is that Boston lines go, both my kids went there. They have a lot of alumni. That brings money back, yeah, so there's that community support.

Speaker 6  56:00  
But the other reason why they bring money is because the money was invested in them, right? So if you go to this school that give you the support that you need, and it might say, people might say, Oh, it doesn't matter. Yes, it's matter the way the school look models, because that that bring people, at least that's what I think. You bring self esteem, you know what? I mean, you feel worth it or doing getting better, if you that's what's been given to you, you know. And then all the school like you see them in, if you go from one place to another, and you get here in Dorchester. Emily, what's going on? Why is no Dorchester getting the support that they need? You know why it's like that in just going, going back on that, what I would love to see is that that there is a at least with the state funding, because we cannot control those private funding, but at least the state fundings right? They are equally distributed around Boston, that the same after school product they are provided, let's say in West was very especially on low income Exactly. They have a dochester, they have it in Roxbury, they have it in Malacca. And we know it's not like that, you know, we know it's not like that, with nothing much we can do about private funding. But, you know, but still, I mean, if I'm in Dorchester, and if I want to post online academy in the system, invest in me and I go and be successful. I want to invest back my community.

Unknown Speaker  57:53  
Thank you. Anybody else you have two minutes I

Speaker 2  57:58  
would like to see the police working with us, for to be there for us and not against us. For sure, I would love this community to be a little bit more like Cambridge, you know, like they really a sacred place for immigrants. So that is important that we're lacking that in here. And yes, definitely a lot more resources that are accessible and unrestricted for the families, our lower income families and nothing like all of us, if we work for a nonprofit, we qualify for that because not making the money. So yeah,

Speaker 4  58:45  
anybody else? Real quick, I can add up also, as Lupita mentioned, my dream will be to see that all like federal and state fundings will be equally distributed for, once again, low income neighborhoods and communities I'll be

Unknown Speaker  59:08  
let's see what happened in 10 years, Emily and

Speaker 6  59:10  
just one now that I'm thinking about the other term that we use that can never stick in my mind. I don't mean equally, but mean those neighbors near the most get the most. When I think about Boston, I school in Boston, Academy Boston, and school already getting money from some place, so they should not be getting the same amount of money for the from Boston, them both. You know what I mean?

Speaker 1  59:35  
Yeah, and I know exactly what you talked about. It's the same with funding. Like, why did the same organizations continue to get the funding, and they're not doing the work. Yep, anything else, in

Speaker 3  59:46  
addition to everything that everyone said, like we were talking before, support for parents, I would love to see that that happening a place where they could go and they could get resources. Is not only for the kids, but for themselves. In terms of job search,

Unknown Speaker  1:00:06  
mental health,

Speaker 3  1:00:09  
meditation, where can I go? Can I take half an hour places where they can go drop their kids, they have childcare, and they can just stay there for an hour and relax and talk to someone if they need to because of a situation that they're going through.

Speaker 2  1:00:25  
So be nice to be a little bit more like Europe, basically, right? That they do care about that mental health people. And that comes when, once we have the as soon as we get a baby, you know, like you, they pay you to stay with the baby. They smart, right? They know that staying allowing the parents, mom or dad, because they can pick staying with the baby for the first two years of their life, because then, long term, it cost them a lot less than the pain for all these mental

Speaker 6  1:00:56  
in the future. They invest in the future of the country because they have healthy people all

Unknown Speaker  1:01:01  
of that, yep, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:01:05  
well, this is great, a little bit of it. How's everybody feeling? I.

