Speaker 1  0:00  
So we'll start with you.

Unknown Speaker  0:08  
Peace. Mr. Parker,

Speaker 2  0:12  
I live in Roxbury, for the border of Dorchester and Roxbury.

Unknown Speaker  0:21  
Decent fatigue, but decent Thank you. Oh,

Unknown Speaker  0:30  
name's Phil.

Unknown Speaker  0:34  
I'm feeling smooth.

Speaker 3  0:38  
I'm from Randolph, but I was at least live in Dorchester, also, you

Speaker 4  0:53  
know, peaceful, you know the rap and I grew Up in Roland, rockville area, you know, oh, what was the other question? How you feeling? Yeah, so, yeah, I'm feeling peaceful. The voice, you know what I say, but no, I like that. My name is Travis. Live in Roxbury. I'm feeling good.

Speaker 5  1:22  
Okay, my name is Daisy. I live in Dorchester, and I feel okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:30  
Marty, Dorchester, common square,

Unknown Speaker  1:34  
all right, so I prefer the first questions.

Speaker 1  1:37  
Oh, do y'all? Do you all consent to being recorded? Yeah. Okay, good. First question. What is your question about the future of Boston? From your perspective, what is your question about the future of Boston? Like, where do you see it heading? And we can start with Matt,

Speaker 2  2:10  
I question whether or not we'll be able to afford to still be here,

Speaker 2  2:19  
Boston, like most coastal cities around this country, is just like how much you want to pay to stay, and if you don't have ownership, you have to win with somebody else's decision making process.

Unknown Speaker  2:36  
So how to get people to

Speaker 2  2:39  
have an opportunity to be a part of ownership, because sometimes it's not even about the will or the want. It's more about like this opportunity available.

Speaker 3  2:54  
Phil elaborate on that it should be like more programs to help you know the youth would like buying homes or like jobs or to even help them with like taxes or credit schools, stuff like that. So

Speaker 1  3:17  
that's for you're talking about, like a group of people. How about for you, what is your question about the future Boston? What does that for you? So, so for like, Matt said, like, affordability. So,

Unknown Speaker  3:31  
um, just, just to come back

Unknown Speaker  3:38  
to that,

Speaker 4  3:41  
the voice, yeah, man. So I just wanted to say, you know, like, my first question is going to be like, Where'd the culture go, you know, because I feel like, how it's going today, if we're talking future wise, the culture is gonna be pushed out because how it is in the main cities right now, the upper prices, and you look outer cities, they're like, Oh, let me grab that, because it's not cheap to go out of Fall River right now, you know. So I just, yeah, where's the culture? Like our main culture, like the black community culture, like all this stuff that you feel that used to go on in the hood without all the singing stuff and all that extra that used to go down there for real, like people coming outside, you know, block party, everybody grilling and all that. Like, it's not going to be the same summertime. It's going to look different. That's all

Unknown Speaker  4:29  
the voice, okay,

Speaker 6  4:32  
try this. Um, yeah, I would just say I don't really think the So, I guess my question would be, does the city even consider the black and brown people that live here when they make the choices that they make, because I really don't think they do Okay.

Unknown Speaker  4:50  
My question is, will it be safe

Speaker 5  4:54  
with everything going on with the gang violence and stuff like that? That's just it. I. Thank you.

Speaker 3  5:05  
I just guess the low income families, I guess just more help with those people, yeah, how would they be, you know, helped, or, you know, be put into middle class families instead of staying in low class stuff like that.

Speaker 1  5:24  
Now think about the experiences that brought you to your questions.

Speaker 1  5:32  
Take a moment and think about it. What experience brought you to your question?

Speaker 3  5:37  
Sure, I came from a low class family, and I moved my way up from middle class slowly to high class. But, you know, there's, there's people I gotta, you know, big bridges, I'll say BRIDGES I have to build to make my, you know, make my way up there. So I'm getting up there.

Speaker 4  6:01  
Hi, well, so the reason, what it made me come upon my question, is that, you know my past, you know days looking on, you know, even Facebook market or something like that, if you look directly somewhere, like in the hood, because, you know, like, if you want to work, if you want to live out here, you're gonna have to find something close to your job, because, you know, not everybody got a car, or everybody's good with the public transportation. So, you know, you want to make it at least good distance away from your job or whatever. So just about looking at the market rent, and even, you know, filing for housing, it's like it's not really, you're not ever going to really get to the top of the list, even from like, I think it was like a month ago, people moved out here. They had a shipment of people come out here, right? And they got mad cribs that you feel me, they gave to them. But my thing is, like, what happened to other people that has been looking for cribs 1015, years? No? Like, Oh, no, 10 years from now, still on the list. That means they just got pushed back. And all the people that got moved here from that war thing, whatever happened, you're talking about the migrants? Yeah, they are. They got houses and stuff already. They got cribs in all that already. They already got pushed to the top of the list. And that's why I'm like, Damn, I'm still looking. And I lived up. I've been living out here looking so, yeah, that's kind of pushed me to my question.

Unknown Speaker  7:30  
I just think I lived here long enough to realize that, like, there

Speaker 6  7:36  
used to be more opportunities for black and brown people in the city in regards to entertainment and opportunities for jobs, even housing. And I think that like as the climate has changed, as more people have been moving into the city, as more tech companies been coming to the city, they're, you know, they're just looking for these new people, like you said, these new migrants, these new implants to our city. You know what I mean, they're really looking out for them, and they're not really mindful of the people that have been here. You know what I mean, they're not really thinking about our personal well being. It's really about making it more comfortable for the new tenants. You know, who can pay these prices for new housing? Right? People can pay to, you know, live in our neighborhoods, you know. And as these and as they move more people in, the prices go up, and they wouldn't live there. If you can't pay for it, you got to go right. You got to pay them. You got to pay the State.

Speaker 5  8:38  
My experience on the question I asked was, I had a lot of friends and family that passed away due to unsafety, violence, things like that. Wasn't even able to make it past 21 or whatever. And I feel like people should be comfortable just going outside whenever they want, but I happen to worry about looking over their backs all the time, where a

Speaker 2  9:07  
lot of my questions stem from affordable around affordability stems from my experiences being a current tenant in the commercial space, and also, like just you know, in regular residential housing, how

Unknown Speaker  9:22  
I every few years there's a

Speaker 2  9:27  
there's something that happens, whether it's it's real or not, that sort of is the tipping point for how much rent we're going to have to pay going forward. And every time it's like people get priced out of communities and neighborhoods that were once. That's who was there. That's who you saw all the time, right? Like, I grew up in the South End, lower Roxbury area, and I see the same. Anything happened there, and it was like the rent went up. People start buying properties. So there, you know, there might be a bodega corner store that has some steps on it. Now, somebody lives there. They don't want people sitting on their steps. They they call police. Now you're loitering. It's like, I've been, I grow my whole life sitting on these steps ain't for about to come out the store, and now I can't sit there because you decide to buy it. So now you're changing how we navigate our neighborhood because of how you feel, because you came in and served yourself with your money, not knowing there's a culture and there's a history there that existed. So I saw it happen there. So it happened in JP, so it happened in Roxbury. I actually was writing a condo in Roxbury and still, like, there was, like, yeah, we can get, like, more than three racks for your condo right now. So unless you want to pay that, you got to go. So I left, and it's just a cycle. It's cyclical. So if you don't buy, if you don't own, we're always going to be at the mercy of something happening. Then people decide that we can get more money from somewhere, even if it's not you

Unknown Speaker  11:10  
ask this question

Speaker 1  11:13  
first, here's my observation. Three of y'all talked about culture

Unknown Speaker  11:19  
and brought it to housing and affordability. Excuse me,

Speaker 1  11:24  
mask you to go a little bit deeper. Give me an experience

Unknown Speaker  11:32  
that puts you on this path of

Unknown Speaker  11:35  
of thinking in that way, asking that question.

Speaker 1  11:39  
We'll start there, and I can start if you want. Okay, I mean, I'm in, I live in Dorchester, like Matt, why don't not? But, like, I live in a condo. I don't own the condo, but I pay, I pay over that amount of money a month, but I choose to stay here because I feel the same way that everybody else feels that we're being pushed out, and the only way to make a stand is to stay here and to fight the good fight. That's my that's my thing. Do I feel like the city's moving in a different way? I think the city's trying to move in a different way to make things better, but it's just having a difficult time because of all the gentrification that's happening, everybody moving in who can afford all this stuff, telling us who said that we were loitering in front of our stoops, you did absolutely. And trying to explain to the city what they consider these gentrifiers, what they consider loitering is just us hanging out in front of our neighborhoods the way we used to do it. There's a difference. Loitering is when you're obstructing, creating noise, bringing violence, any type of violence, any type of violence. Hanging out is just that. You come over, she comes over, they come. Y'all come over walk. We don't have a backyard because it's the city, so we all sitting in the front laughing and carrying on that's hanging out and having to explain that to people like that's not loitering, but, but because it's gentrifiers saying it, and gentrifiers who are

Unknown Speaker  13:16  
the loudest voice

Speaker 1  13:19  
they're being heard. So the goal here is to make this, to have the to share those type of experiences and then how we move forward. You know, collect our voices and how we move forward. Is that better? Is that? Is that because you Daisy spoke to that?

Speaker 6  13:37  
So you wanted to, but we wanted to see, like, personal experiences, yeah,

Speaker 1  13:42  
so, like, so I have four jobs at my main job, and then I do a whole bunch of consulting work to be able to stay in coddling square, because I refuse to leave. Okay, I refuse to be pushed out. Okay? I refuse, and I refuse to give up the things that I have, that I've worked hard to have, and go someplace else when all my networks, all my healthcare, all the people that support me are here in the neighborhood,

Unknown Speaker  14:12  
I hear you, I don't think I think

Unknown Speaker  14:17  
those are choices people make. Yeah,

Speaker 6  14:19  
that's what I'm saying. I mean, I, you know, you know, man, I have conversations all the time, but for me, like, I'm

Unknown Speaker  14:25  
just waiting for the opportunity I'm ready to

Speaker 6  14:29  
go. No, I get it. And my thing is, my thing is, here's what I'm saying. We have a whole lot of cities a whole I travel a lot, so there's a whole lot of cities where you can move to and have a wonderful place to live for not a lot of money, and they and they love black people, right? Massachusetts has always been a racist city. Always. It's always been the same way we act like we don't see it. It's always been the same way, right? And this city has this city in real life, doesn't need us here to move. That's really what it is, right? Black people make up 2% of the whole state of Massachusetts. I don't know if y'all realize that 2% 6% whatever, it's still tiny. It's still small enough that they don't have to accommodate us. They don't have to accommodate us. They don't have to have entertainment for us. They don't have to have art outlets for us. Don't have to do nothing for us, for the city to keep moving. There's so many Ivy League schools and colleges here that they don't have to make us comfortable, and they know that, so they have a little club once, once, a little fighter altercation happens. Let's wrap this up, right? We're gonna make a Spanish or something, right? Black people don't need to be here, or we'll make it so you we just on our dress code. We said, we'll make sure the dress code has all the stuff that we know you gonna put on, right? That's an easy way to do it, right? No, jeans. Can't have a chain outside your shirt. Don't wear a hoodie, don't wear some boots, even if it's cold out, right? They don't all these things that we know that they gonna put us, you know? I mean, so, like, I'm saying, like, we don't have to be here, and that's where I'm at. Like, first opportunity, someone give me the right paper, I'm out. I'll come visit my friend, Matt, whenever you want me to come visit, right? I want to first thing smoking. Because the reality is, is where I live at I've been paying the same price for a long time. They decide to sell my property. I got a new owner. The new orders is, I don't know. I don't want to be raped. I don't know Indian from some country. English is real broken, and he doesn't have conversations with me. I just speak to a realtor, right? And so I lived here before you bought this place, and now you want me to pay this new price, and you're trying to tell me that I need to pay a security. I'm not paying no security, bro, I was here before you bought this place, so I'm not paying what I'm paying plus another security, which is double that. Like, come on, crazy bro. And what I'm saying is they don't, and I understand that they don't have to make me comfortable, right? You got the money to pay by this house, so you make all the rules here now, and me as a wrong man. It's up to me if I want to play the game or not knowing there's other places I can go and live good and they love me there, right? So why you want to say someone with them go people don't give me the whole love because you got people here. Bring them with you, bro. Bring them with you. Listen, I think a lot of people are happy with being abused. I don't like abused relationships. I don't like being abused in a relationship, right? I don't like being taught to any kind of way. I won't be treated any kind of way. And Massachusetts feels like they can treat us any kind of way, and I'm not with it, okay? So, you know, they're gonna do what they want to do with that, you know, regardless. So we can, we can. We can either decide to put our money together and start buying some property, right? Or you want to keep having to pay the state, and you will have to work four or five jobs to live in a place where where the neighborhood don't love you and the state don't love you, and they give you reminders all the time, right?

Unknown Speaker  18:07  
Example of how,

Unknown Speaker  18:11  
example of my personal future as I see it.

Unknown Speaker  18:13  
And you're not wrong, because my oldest left Florida, you did,

Speaker 1  18:18  
and my oldest felt the same way and left to Florida, where it was worse, and is now moving back. Okay, I wouldn't

Speaker 1  18:34  
agree that was not a good move, and I couldn't top her off, so, but I'm just saying like she felt the same way. Absolutely, I'm straight done, but thank you for that. Can somebody else share their experience and look back up to their question?

Unknown Speaker  18:55  
I mean, you did as well. I thank you

Speaker 3  18:56  
Daisy. Her experiences, eating, okay, yes, there was plenty of incidents where, you know, I'm living with my mother in the landlord, but like you said, you know, charge the rent up higher, but doesn't fix what's going on in the house, you know. So it'd be like, it'll be like the sink is stocked up, or the windows won't lock correctly. Or, you know, it'd be minor stuff, but it adds up. So you know that right there leads to, you know, why are you asking for more money if you not fixing minor stuff? That's not, you know, that I could probably fix myself. So that led me to, right now, growing up being more hands on and learn how to fix appliances and stuff like that. Because I had it, I have a lot of slumlords. That's how you that's how I start saying that. And it's from living with my mom now living by myself. Now, I still got more slumlords, so I'll call them hey, I'm having a problem. Never come so I have to figure out the problem and do. With myself, and it's just, I feel he's saying, like, I'm the whole abused relationship and staying here and and trying to, you know, and paying their rent for them to live comfortable while we're not really living comfortable. It's like, that's not really what I'm here for. That's not, I'm not really gonna reach my goal, helping you reach yours every month. That's how it's every month I'm paying you, I'm gonna pay you on time. But it's like, are you gonna help me within the month to get where I need to get to a live comfortable, you're not so.

Speaker 4  20:37  
So, like, this is like high personal experience if you really want to dance with So, like my family, like both sides once, like live, like directly up and down from each other. So that was before, like in rossingham, the place where we used to live, the place where my grandmother still lives. It used to be bricks, you know, and they had way more apartments after that, like they bust the bricks down. And every single you feel me like for house, apartment is not one, so that just cut it. Mad people had to move, you know. And like the popular the population over there, I don't even see black folks outside like that, unless you feel me, it's like half the people that still try to live there, you know. And mostly, you know, it's just white people outside walking their dog now, and they lock up the courts. Now, you feel me, yeah, bro, before, bro, we before the court was always open, yeah? Now they gotta, like, a lock on it, like, at nine o'clock or something. You can't, yeah, you can't be outside. So he lock it up. So now the kids, you know, they used to be, like, we always outside, people outside. Tell 12 o'clock everybody's outside, the kid and their parents, but nobody like what we outside for the gates locked to the basketball court. We just gonna sit outside in the cold like it's just that over there. Now and then they switched it all up. There's no kids outside playing like that. They got a whole playground. You just see a bunch of older white people just walking around the area with their dogs, people, just like, it's mad different. It's my different now. No parking lots in there. No more. The parking is tough. You feel me. It's just like a mad tight area didn't close the area, and just like, everybody had to move. So from my experience with that. It's like, now my family got mad, split up. Now, my pop sides over here, my grandmother sides down the street, whatever down the block. Some people hadn't moved back to the islands, all type of like you for me, it's my split up now. So it's like, yeah, yeah. They just really trying to get us up out of here.

Speaker 1  23:04  
So David, can I ask you to speak a little bit more about safety and all that well?

Unknown Speaker  23:13  
I mean, honestly, it's just like the

Speaker 5  23:18  
like I said before, the game balance and different things like that, or just like, I don't know I'd explain it, like,

Speaker 1  23:26  
however you want to explain it would be the right way. There's no wrong right way here.

Speaker 5  23:33  
Let me Yeah, like, I don't want to say, like, it could be, like, Wrong place, wrong time, or whatever. But like, there's been times where, like, no, I'll be on my way to common square and like I was gonna hit by a car because a police chase, or like someone's crashing and something crazy, or citizens is reporting of violence, or something like someone stabbing or shooting or whatever the case may

Unknown Speaker  23:56  
be resting on that citizens out, yeah,

Speaker 5  24:00  
They let you know what in the news do. But it's just like, it's not safe. Like Fauci was saying, there's no kids outside, really planning anymore, because parents don't really feel safe with their kids outside.

Unknown Speaker  24:15  
Nobody wants to walk around. It's not safe. Like,

Speaker 1  24:21  
I have two questions based on the conversations that I've heard. So we're all in agreement. What I heard was our all in agreement that the black culture is being pushed out.

Unknown Speaker  24:34  
So why be here not feeling loved a

Speaker 2  24:42  
lot? Yeah, is that for everybody or for whoever wants to

Unknown Speaker  24:46  
talk about it? Why stay well, that was his question. There's people that's

Speaker 3  24:54  
not gonna want to move at all, that's not gonna want to move, that's not gonna. To take that, I'm saying that initiative, but okay, let me just go ahead and and go to go to Alabama, or just go to leave, leave Boston, because they're comfortable what they're they're used to their routine. They're used to their routine of what they do their lives. They cannot see. They're so abused. They can't

Unknown Speaker  25:17  
see. They can't they can't

Speaker 2  25:18  
see this. They cannot see their self outside of their

Speaker 3  25:24  
routine. They cannot see they cannot do it right now. I cannot see myself moving from Boston to Alabama, but I'm going to next year. That's amazing. So, oh yeah, I'm about to be out of here. Give it up. I gotta be. I gotta be.

Speaker 1  25:45  
I have another question for you all. I respect it too, like I'm not, I'm not just, I'm not disputing anything. So do you think that? Do you think that the resources

Unknown Speaker  25:55  
that are here, sorry me, so I'm saying that the

Speaker 1  25:59  
resources that are here in Boston, and the healthcare system that is here in Boston

Unknown Speaker  26:05  
is not

Speaker 1  26:10  
listen. So I say, I say, let me just say that I stay because everything I need is here. Personally, it like if I move further, it's just gonna be worse for me not to fuck. So so. So do you think that that, based on what you said, I'll pick on you for a minute, then I'm coming back to you. I love that.

Unknown Speaker  26:30  
Do you think that that's what keeps people here? There

Unknown Speaker  26:33  
opportunity, there's

Unknown Speaker  26:35  
not there opportunities, resources, resources, there's, there's resources

Speaker 3  26:39  
head that will also, like I said, will cripple people, saying the whole, you can say how you want, I didn't say that. There's hope. There's people that's living off, what is it? Assistance? Assistance. There's the socials. The Social shit. I'm saying people living off so, so, so things like that. They don't want to leave because they're fine. Of what they got, they already got, like, a nice little house or apartment. They they good, Mama down, Mama, down the street. Sisters, they got their kids already. He already five going in the School Street. No, they're not about to up and just leave because I'm already set. You feel me. You got your whole job established here in common square. You're not about to leave common square and go all the way to break or a

Unknown Speaker  27:29  
whole another state to come out here to work.

Speaker 3  27:33  
Damn stay. I feel you. There's that job. And not stay with users out. They're probably gonna paid you double. No shit.

Speaker 6  27:41  
All the money's here. I understand that point. That's it. Here's what I'm saying. I completely understand, right? Like I have a great job, benefits, everything, completely covered, life insurance. Time to plan all that. If my son wasn't so young, I would be out of here, but I know he's getting a wonderful education. There's plenty opportunities for him if something happens to me, he's good because my job covers all that. Okay, besides all that, though, I also, once again, I'm not full abusive relationships and living here, if you're a black or brown person, you're being abused, and that's the fact, right? Like we met, if you lived here long enough, you understand that what menino did, like menino was mayor for so long, just because he made sure that there was no outside contractors building in the city. There was no outside people. You had to use Boston unions. Everything was Boston, right? So our skyline downtown look the same. Forever. Was was mayor. Once he died, they was like, let's get it. They let everybody come in and come get it right. So now downtown this year, the skyline is gone, brand new buildings everywhere they take an old churches turning into condos. They taking old schools putting them into condos, right? Yeah, only people who can, who can afford. There's all these new people that work for these tech companies and all these new companies that are coming here, right? They can pay whatever it's going to be. So they're not even thinking about the current tenants. They're not thinking about us, because they know they're going to get the money regardless, because the education is so good, because the money is so good, because the health care was so good, right? Forget the people who live here, though, right? We know they don't need us. That's the reality. If they need us, they would do better for us. Go ahead, Matt,

Speaker 2  29:37  
please. All right, so be the catalyst. Y'all are right, and it's a both end, it's not, it's not an either or. It's not a but, um, it's a both in so you y'all are right, right? Like there's some things that that are just not advantageous for us to be here.

Unknown Speaker  30:01  
But I will also say,

Unknown Speaker  30:04  
and being fortunate enough to see

Unknown Speaker  30:09  
if this is bad

Speaker 2  30:12  
anywhere, I'll say this, if you stay in the country anywhere else, you're probably going to be fucked even worse than here. I stay with in other places. And here's the thing, like, unfortunately, because of, like, the historical context of trauma, racism, white supremacy, whatever you want to call it, like, the fact that we've had it so messed up, if you go anywhere else, things that will have you at outpatient services here. Um, you might be in a body bag elsewhere, because the health care so horrible. Like, point blank, I've lived I've lived in Detroit, I lived in Atlanta. Atlanta is like the black Mecca, right? Like it's black Hollywood, but you're in the hospital. You you you better off here with a racist doctor who might not even like black people, but they'll keep you alive here. That's not guaranteed. Nowhere else the healthcare here, especially since black and brown folks have multiple times more of core comorbidities than any other racial group, right? Because of habit, because of environment, because of diet, because of all the things, we make less money so we buy lower quality products. Lower quality products means there's more sugars, fats, preservatives in there. That's fucked up for your system, stuffed up for your system, Yo, you gonna be seeing the doctor about issues a lot sooner in life than you expect to. Doctors don't treat it the right way because the system, the institution of medicine, is also messed up because it's messed up for people of color, black and brown folks, especially the women. Women get treated worse out of anybody in the hospital system, especially the maternal death rate like so, if y'all fellas in you seed up a woman. She pregnant with your seed. You stay in Massachusetts, you might want to stay even then, there's still challenges that come along with that. You know, I'm saying, um, and because of all those things, it's like, yeah, it makes sense to be somewhere else. But if you're thinking about

Unknown Speaker  32:38  
depends on what you look at is what's quality of life for you?

Speaker 6  32:42  
I put it that way. That's smart. So keep an apartment with your name on it. I did ask for something right with your name on it. That way you can come back and get the high school if you need it, but live somewhere else. Airbnb,

Speaker 2  33:02  
no So other things like, there's a lot. Another instance, so many people come the money here is good so, and one of the problems we have is everybody comes here to eat and and we complain about what's for us, what's left over, right? Why am I still looking for a job? How come I'm not getting paid? But such as such as driving from New Hampshire every morning, fighting through all that traffic, getting that paper. I live across the street, and I can't get that job, and I will be on time. Why is everybody coming from Rhode Island? See Rhode Island Connecticut plates? That's right post up at all the construction sites. I can lift lumber. I come over still being,

Unknown Speaker  33:43  
hire you. Hey, well, that's just black to the

Unknown Speaker  33:54  
back of

Unknown Speaker  33:59  
the bus there.

Speaker 2  34:00  
Well, here's so when I just found out there's actually four new the four latest projects that got approved for the city, all done by black developers, multiple different skills, and they're still not hiring no black. No, they're hiring the blacks. Oh, they absolutely hiring the blacks. Actually, the sister who, um, who developed the fountains over in Fort Hill, right behind, um, where the old barley yard used to be. Okay, the fountains is, um, bunch of condos, right? Yeah, everybody she hired was black, and she makes sure all the tenants black, brown, you know, I'm saying, like, what's her appointment? Let's go. Let's get some appointments from but those are things like, we don't search out. Those things, right? Like, we're like, oh, nobody's giving us sign. It's like, Nah, she's out. Now, what are we doing to go? Go, be a part of it. Sometimes it's not going to walk up to you, slap you upside Hey, you. Not go get it.

Speaker 6  35:00  
Then what I'm saying is, then what we need to do is, when we have these kind of meetings, have the right people in the same space so we can all take advantage of these opportunities. Absolutely all you notice the same lady that you y'all know, or whatever. So let me ask. Well, I only met her once.

Unknown Speaker  35:14  
Try and get in where I fit in. I know who she is,

Speaker 1  35:19  
so that so y'all have part of Matt's program here at Urban minority right? Close

Unknown Speaker  35:25  
enough, I'm a

Unknown Speaker  35:27  
little tired. I said I was a little tired. Um,

Speaker 1  35:32  
Matt does activism work and organizing work through art?

Speaker 2  35:36  
No, we're not. We're not activists. We're organizers and creatives and artists, but

Speaker 1  35:41  
organizing dope humans, organizing leads to activism in different ways.

Speaker 2  35:48  
I just push back because I hate the I don't like it either or the activist piece, because everybody wants to be activist, but

Speaker 1  35:55  
not know what it really means. I know you're but you, but you, but you're in this organizing World, sometimes I realize you need Yeah,

Speaker 2  36:10  
but no, I grab some chips over here with how we gonna move to places not called Florida.

Speaker 1  36:18  
So. So how do you use the skills and what you've learned in this program with Matt and each other. How do you use that to move people along? How do you do that, like, can you do that in a way that you can see small changes that lead to bigger changes? What can I do? Whoever

Speaker 6  36:39  
I mean, I think the network is important, right? You know, it's my first time meeting y'all, but if I got some opportunities and I'm in touch with y'all, it makes sense for me to put y'all in these opportunities, especially if I know you can do, yeah, right? And I think a lot of times that we that's what we forget to do, or stuff. We just don't usually, just don't, you know, I'm saying we don't always put our people in place of position, just because sometimes we felt it took us, it took us a lot to get there, and we don't want a friend or a family member to mess that up for us, right? We don't say it out loud, but that's okay. Would it be? I got this position, I cook with my cousin, or whatever in this position, but I know he might show up late, maybe more bad. That's what I can't let happen. So a lot of times we don't really put push the information to each other, like we should

Speaker 4  37:32  
pick up on that, right? So thank you. Um, well, what you said, I have a I have a buddy. You feel me where I worked at for me, it's kind of like a school or whatever. You go there, you get your high set. They also pay you to get your high side while you did if you're 18 and 24 so my buddy, he's He's 22 I'm trying. I I bring him there, bro. I call him in the morning, bro. I tell him show up, bro. And he doesn't like coming bro. And I'm like, bro, they pay you at the end of this like you feel me. You get free $500 for not you feel me. And if you stay and you get a you go to college with them, they give you a band. So I'm trying to give it to them like bro, you're getting paid to do what you already got to do. You feel me. And it's not working. So I feel like, even if you I'm sorry not, not to, like, downplay your thing, but like, even when you show them it right there, bro, it's about like, the hustle mentality they got for their self. If I want to do this or not because, like, I didn't, Yo, bro, it's right here. Take the bag and they're like, I don't know. It was kind of hard, like, I don't know, some people just uh, lazy. I don't know. Your

Speaker 2  38:47  
uncle used to say something I was legit as and I still say to this day, everybody wants, y'all, everybody don't want to work. Well, that's

Unknown Speaker  38:57  
a nice way of saying what I usually say.

Speaker 1  39:02  
I usually say everybody want to drink, smoking, fuck, but not be a grown up.

Unknown Speaker  39:11  
That's what I usually say. Nobody want to grow the con, but

Speaker 2  39:15  
everybody want to read the bond right and touch on what y'all saying. I think one hustle mindset, right? Like, it can't be on, you gotta be in you, yep, um, and it's also, and it's also, like, sometimes I was just speaking to Jeff, there's some cats where it's like, just because it's coming from you, they don't know how to accept it, because they're like, damn if I'm like this, and they're like this, gonna stay on the same level

Unknown Speaker  39:50  
so they see you growing. It's like, Nah,

Speaker 2  39:53  
you're not, we're not the same level. I can't receive stuff from you no more. You either up or down, so I can't value you, because we're not. Saying, and it's like people's lack of growth or something. This the other part that's hard live. Cats want to throw stuff at you, or pretend to throw stuff at you and not really give it to you, because, damn, I worked 245, years for this mom. I gonna put them on. They have to do all the work I did to get on you know, I'm saying, and there's a lot of folks out there like that. I I'm not gonna lie. I used to think like that too. I like, Yo, why am I busting my ass and I'm supposed to hook you up for nothing? Like, nah. Like, you better get in the trenches too. You better get in the fox hole and go to war with me. Blah, blah. But it's like, everybody's not we all fighting the same war, but everybody gotta fight different battles. You feel me? I wasn't talking about myself when I was making that statement. No, no, neither am I. I'm just talking in general, though. Like these are instances that I've witnessed and sometimes been a part of, and right now, just my own admission, like, Yo, I was that person sometime like, Yo, if I'm hustling hard, I'm grinding, I'm trying to figure stuff out. Well, I look like, hand it to somebody else who's not willing to work as hard, or who I'm hooking up, but I don't see them ever hooking nobody up.

Speaker 1  41:11  
So I had that mindset as well, and I called somebody out on it. And this is what she said, My job is to open doors for you

Unknown Speaker  41:19  
so that you can walk through those doors.

Speaker 1  41:22  
So if that's our mindset, if our mindset is that way, like, yes, we have to

Unknown Speaker  41:27  
go through the shit in the to get to the sugar

Speaker 1  41:29  
so that somebody else can follow, then that's the job I'm willing to take. Right?

Unknown Speaker  41:33  
Everyone doesn't have that mentality. That's what that's

Speaker 1  41:36  
what Matt just said, right? Now, everybody has that mentality. Matt

Unknown Speaker  41:40  
got it, but

Speaker 1  41:44  
it's hard to be in that space. So for people who who come to these type of organizations and do this type of work on a different level, you know, in a different way, how do we keep keep opening those doors for people to come in to continue that push? I Bucha. It's just a you don't have to answer that question. It's just something to think about. And if you want to answer it, that'd be great. So like, so I met Richard 24 years ago, my Richard, person that we work with, 24 years ago, and when I met him, he was like, Yeah, you don't have to do some digging, digging hard, if you want to get to where I'm at right now. That was 24 years ago. Here I am, 2020 yeah, here I am 24 years ago, doing what he's doing, but it was hard to get here, but I think, but he opened the door. That's

Speaker 6  42:39  
how do we say? I think you got to open the door a lot, probably a lot of people, and you got to see who's really

Speaker 1  42:45  
so how do we do that? How do we support the people who are opening the door? I'm saying,

Speaker 6  42:49  
like, you got to do it and see who really wants it and who really doesn't

Speaker 1  42:53  
want so how do we open those How do we continue to push support people who are opening doors? Y'all, I say y'all. But I mean, like, there's a whole bunch of us, y'all, Can y'all open doors for other people as well? And, yeah, I get little upset too. Like, you know, Matt, like, why I work so hard, and why he ain't working that hard, but that that's just that mindset. Like, if you go back to how what feels comfortable to you, but how do we continue to do that, to continue to push so that everybody's opening doors for everybody else who want to walk through those doors. To your point, Travis,

Speaker 3  43:27  
just building bridges with the people that like seeing that once wants to work, that actually has that drive, you know, I'm saying that people, you know, saying that has an end goal, more to have that five year plan, because, like, they're saying, let's be that. Say, I want to work and it's just there for the check, you know? They just there. They just want to check at the week. They don't want to actually do the work to get the check, you know. So, for instance, there's a this happened Friday, a little kid, little four year old, walked out of the little preschool thing, and none of the teachers realize So little things like that. Y'all there for the check. Y'all not really there for the kids, because how did a four year old go walk out of the gate? Y'all not doing your job? Or are they so

Unknown Speaker  44:15  
overworked? But there's not enough people. That's true.

Unknown Speaker  44:17  
That's who. So either way, it's just like

Speaker 3  44:20  
something's not you know, they need me. You know they need help. You know,

Unknown Speaker  44:29  
do you want to set it all right, let's

Speaker 2  44:42  
go sometimes it's like fatigue. I'm tired so I can speak to like I'm thinking of it two ways, like you type they say the definition is saying you're doing the same thing, getting the same results over over again. Yeah, but doing the same thing, expecting different results. Do we have the armor or the wherewithal or the tough skin to be able to be cool with the disappointment that comes knowing that everybody open the door for everybody doesn't walk through the door, and sometimes you gotta open that like they might walk up to the door and close that. Yeah, are you want to open that door back up until they get it right? Or

Speaker 1  45:27  
you may not like the person who's opening that door, but do you appreciate them opening the door? Nah.

Unknown Speaker  45:32  
If it's Fu, it's fu all the time,

Speaker 2  45:36  
and if it's love, it's love all the time. This is true. And you know, there's some people like,

Unknown Speaker  45:46  
we got a mutual cat who we're cool with. Oh,

Speaker 2  45:53  
bro, literally, I walked I opened all the doors for him, and time after time, he was just saying no to my face. And then he told me one day, like, Yo, I feel like you be trying to Big Bro me all the time, yo, and we're in it's not like that. Like, I don't need handouts, but I block. I'm like, damn if you my people, we in community together. If you tell me, yo, my ends is fucked up right now, this is going on. I'm not gonna say here's some bread, but I'm gonna put you in a position, get some bread. No, now he took it a different way. And so even at this point now, we see each other. I dab them up still, same, same, same, you know, cordials, whatever, but you don't rock like that. We don't hang out, don't spend time. And yo, I've known this cat for like, 20 something years. Like, and my mother, he still be trying to call my mother and hang out and stuff. My mother be like, yo. Like, it's nice to see you. Nice to hear from you. I gotta go, like, if it's, if it's at my son, it's F you, you know I'm saying, like, she carries that kind of energy. Yeah, she should.

Unknown Speaker  46:59  
Unfortunately, I carry that energy, sometimes myself,

Speaker 2  47:01  
but it but that's what it is, though, and it's like, sometimes it's like, Could I could I say, You know what? You know, he slayed that door in my face. Let me open up again. I probably could. But am I going to No?

Speaker 2  47:20  
Because once it's F you, it's f you all the time, this love is love all the time, and everything. Gotta give respect. You be looking at me like, Yo, you crazy, talking like that. But we don't fall out of community, because if it's love, it's love all the time,

Speaker 1  47:35  
right? Just because conflict, conflict is still full of love at some conflict is growth, absolutely

Unknown Speaker  47:42  
conflict is a lot of disagree with my friends. Are we arguing? But there's

Unknown Speaker  47:53  
an understanding,

Unknown Speaker  47:57  
understanding, but we'll get to it, then, yeah,

Speaker 4  48:01  
it'd be mine. You know, you don't like, ever, you know, like what you call that? There's a word for it, bro, they actually have classes in school for that. Bro, not arguing, debating, that's what we do. It's not arguing, it's really debating,

Unknown Speaker  48:16  
debating, fighting.

Speaker 1  48:21  
So you guys answer all of the questions you didn't okay. He answered all the questions. I have to listen to the tape again, but I listen to the tape later.

Unknown Speaker  48:31  
Um, is there anything else y'all want to share?

Speaker 1  48:35  
Because y'all identified, Y'all said questions, shared experiences, identified pathways, pathways to solutions. Is there anything else that y'all want to add to that conversation? Because that's what I heard when I was listening to

Speaker 2  48:50  
everybody. Oh, so, so these are closing statements. Everybody gets a closing statement. Absolutely,

Unknown Speaker  48:54  
you can have a closing statement, absolutely.

Unknown Speaker  48:57  
Oh, is there anything else? Yes, I'll close

Speaker 6  49:01  
I'll go work. Yeah. I think, I think that, like a lot of these organizations that are in these communities, that have opportunities for people in the community, should do a better job as promoting it, right? So there's these lady there's a lady who has an organization that's hiring, you know, black folks to do construction on sites or whatever. This should be many locations promoting this opportunity in these different parts of the neighborhood, right? There's people that's helping with affordable housing. They should be in every part of the community is really promoting it. So the people who live in the community, or from the community, have the opportunity to take these advantages. So this door that we're talking about is open for everybody, and it's opportunities for the door to be open in all these different communities, right? So I think there's a lot of organizations that can help a lot of people, but folks don't know about it, right? Everyone doesn't have Wi Fi, everyone doesn't have computers in their house. Yeah. Everybody doesn't have the same opportunities, right? But street work still works. You know what? I mean, we kind of forget about that because we have so much social media, but it's good to have some people on the ground floor who's gonna door knock and get get to the people who, you know what I mean, I need some help, absolutely, if

Unknown Speaker  50:21  
we care about the people, still,

Speaker 3  50:27  
no, I definitely do. Um, I agree with him 100% you know, just the people that has programs to help, you know, Bucha jobs or like, even like sports events for kids. You know, if there's more,

Unknown Speaker  50:42  
just giving them

Speaker 3  50:46  
discounts, you know, for low income families, just, you know, just more help for the for the people that you know. Just look at low trying to build their self. Pretty much, you know, they don't want to stay in the same spot. So, yeah, just promoting more support, Mr.

Unknown Speaker  51:02  
Voice, I feel like, you know,

Speaker 4  51:06  
let the voice speak real quick so you see, you see how our mindset in this community is, as in for many people my age, 2120 24 in that area, this should change the mindset and people my in my culture, because I feel like a regular young black man, you offer him a school education or whatever they want to get in their feelings and be like, Oh, that's Coney like that. What's that gonna do for my looks like, what's that really gonna do for my street cred? Like they really be worried about the wrong stuff. So I feel like, you know, if we could change that mindset and present it in a way, because then, once they get older and pass that, they're gonna be like, Oh, damn. Other stuff I was doing is corny. How was I saying that was corny. Now I'm stuck in this catch up game or whatever you feel me. So you know, if we could change it from like us doing what we gotta do now and then try and be corny later on. Okay, Miss Daisy,

Speaker 2  52:08  
okay, they said it off. Nah. You got something. Everything is dead. Everything is dead. No, you spitting earlier. What's going on in the streets? If you want, if you want just that, work hard,

Unknown Speaker  52:30  
close it, yeah, um,

Speaker 1  52:35  
close the question. Is there anything else left that you want to share? Say, closing statement overall,

Speaker 2  52:41  
just closing statement, oh yes, we have

Unknown Speaker  52:47  
all the right tools,

Speaker 2  52:50  
and we unfortunately still discount people power and sometimes even in our organizations and all these initiatives and stuff you get so caught up in how to do something, we forget why we're doing it,

Unknown Speaker  53:08  
the bureaucracy, the red tape, the

Speaker 2  53:12  
excuse me, who to work with, how to it's like, Yo, just do it. Sometimes the hardest thing is showing up and doing something, and we forget the showing up and do it part everybody like we can find time for the things that mean something. We can find ways to make stuff work. There's there's ways to figure it out in if we collectively do it in a smart way,

Unknown Speaker  53:41  
anything's possible.

Speaker 2  53:43  
I've seen some cool shit. I've seen people fight for their properties as a collective and turn that into co ops, where their owners occupying space. But are we going to be smart enough and down enough to, like, survive the fight. Because sometimes people see the fight and it's like, Yo, every bully looks tough until they get punched in the face. When we gonna punch him back in the face? But there's some bullies I ain't gonna front like, yo, it's time to leave. It's time to leave.

Unknown Speaker  54:21  
I'll be a hero tomorrow. I want to live to see tomorrow.

Unknown Speaker  54:26  
And with that said, Yeah, I'm done well.

Speaker 1  54:29  
Thank you all. This was great. Good information. I appreciate all of you. Thank you for participating. You.

